0:01
Andrew Ippolito: we're picking up at the very end of the chapter 13 lecture this is genesis we learned about how and humans are all mammals, the the eggs, the egg selves oh sites, the over go through first myopic division and then they get arrested there.
0:22
Andrew Ippolito: Then, when sexual maturity is reached, the follicles go through, so you go through your menstrual cycle and there's oscillation right, so the hormones in your body.
0:34
Andrew Ippolito: build up until the point where there's this critical moment to moment in time, where the follicle Ray bursts, and some people can feel it when it happens, and then the.
0:46
Andrew Ippolito: The ovum follows down into the uterine tube also called the fallopian tube where weights and so, if if a sperm comes along you get a fusion event.
1:00
Andrew Ippolito: The sperm, then so that fusion event triggers meiosis two and the second the formation of the second polar body.
1:08
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so we kind of left off talking about this idea that we go from we go from one side of the one cell and meiosis, and the reason is is the egg is as large as possible, so that it can hold as many nutrients as possible.
1:24
Andrew Ippolito: What, for two reasons, the first is, is it needs to be able to send a chemical signal out have to call this PR firms basically your chemo tactic, they will follow the chemical trail and.
1:37
Andrew Ippolito: The second is is once the Vegas fertilized you know this, this new cell called the zygote and, by the way, that more zygote we're going to see homozygous heterozygous that that second part of that word is I guess talks about the psycho being different or the same for for the genome.
1:56
Andrew Ippolito: But anyway, the South, the egg is huge, so that it has enough nutrients, so that I can support.
2:02
Andrew Ippolito: The rapid cleavage event that occurs, which is when the cell goes, you have these series of.
2:10
Andrew Ippolito: You go from one cell and then very quickly to two cells, but there's no change in volume so basically you go from something this big there's something this big made of many cells it's a very rapid.
2:26
Andrew Ippolito: cell division series of subdivisions called. Andrew Ippolito: cleavage.
2:32
Andrew Ippolito: So anyway, and then then that's developmental biology, if you want to learn more about that you can take developmental biology someday or read a book on it.
2:41
Andrew Ippolito: or your textbook probably has a section on it. Andrew Ippolito: So what we're gonna do now is i'm going to i'm going to give you kind of a teaser for your next semester for this stuff these are called life cycles and so.
2:55
April Neeld: yeah. April Neeld: tour has a question in the chat for you. Oh.
3:01
April Neeld: Thank you, thanks. Andrew Ippolito: The end and the to end.
3:07
Andrew Ippolito: My. Andrew Ippolito: Oh yeah sure sure okay sorry so. Andrew Ippolito: let's go here.
3:14
Andrew Ippolito: So let's say that we have some theoretical cell and this cell has.
3:20
Andrew Ippolito: A nucleus, and in that nucleus, there are.
3:27
Andrew Ippolito: two. Andrew Ippolito: Two chromosomes oh nice Okay, so I see two chromosomes that you gotta have to be up so i'm going to be careful how I talk now the genome.
3:43
Andrew Ippolito: consists of right some sequence of DNA right it's just.
3:48
Andrew Ippolito: there's this DNA sequence, you can think of all genomes is just one big one sentence before letters right so let's say this is the human genome.
3:58
Andrew Ippolito: Right. Andrew Ippolito: So that's that's not a chromosome that's just that's all of the sequences that make up our genome.
4:07
Andrew Ippolito: Every eukaryotic organism has a genome that has one big long run on sentence of DNA and what you can do is just divide it into chunks into pieces it's kind of like taking your favorite book and dividing into chapters.
4:22
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, it doesn't matter how many chapters, or maybe there's 200 chapters, maybe there's four.
4:29
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so it's an arbitrary number. Andrew Ippolito: And so we take that.
4:37
Andrew Ippolito: Take that all right now i'm just i'm out of here here let's do it here so for my hypothetical example here i'm going to do this.
4:46
Andrew Ippolito: i'm just going to break it in you know into two pieces. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so now i'm going to redraw that here's the first long piece and here's a short piece.
4:57
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and i'm going to get rid of this.
5:02
Andrew Ippolito: So you see there's two there's two chunks there's two chromosomes okay all species have some number of chromosomes and we call that it's a number.
5:12
Andrew Ippolito: So for this So here we would say this Ennis.
5:17
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: Now, one of the oddities of sexually reproducing organisms is the will have.
5:28
Andrew Ippolito: An entire second set of the chromosomes it's like having a backup copy like having two dictionaries or two really good to encyclopedias.
5:41
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, that are written by slave that over time have modified by different editors right they started out the same right so yeah so Imagine you had you know you had an encyclopedia on your shelf.
5:56
Andrew Ippolito: You know ABC whatever and they were the same you know, and then you had.
6:02
Andrew Ippolito: You had a second copy of it Okay, and then many years past and they're edited by different people to randomly mutated over time that's the key here.
6:11
Andrew Ippolito: So, like this one will develop invitation here that's one of those mutations you so they slowly die merge or sequences diverge a little bit right, so they started out the same.
6:19
Andrew Ippolito: And then, as time moves on, because because mutation is random those two copies will undergo different mutation events that's what leads to differences between, on the legals.
6:33
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, are you still with me. Victoria Bloemker: yeah i'm like i'm I was like reading it down was turning.
6:41
Andrew Ippolito: process yeah that's fine that's fine. Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so. Andrew Ippolito: So let me get rid of my addiction my my encyclopedias here.
6:48
Andrew Ippolito: So watch this i'm going to just choose the long one, I want to call the long chromosome here's the long term is that we're going to call it chromosome one.
6:55
Andrew Ippolito: will call the short one chromosome to. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, that now what i'm going to do, I want to say that these two chromosomes we inherited from mom So this is the maternal copy of chromosome one, this is the maternal copy of chromosomes.
7:13
Andrew Ippolito: Right and for dad. Andrew Ippolito: somewhere else in the cell i'm drawing it exactly the same a drug differently so because there's no relationship between those two chunks of DNA there's no relationships between those two chunks of chromatin.
7:28
Andrew Ippolito: there's no relation between those two chromosomes okay physically they there they don't care about each other.
7:36
Andrew Ippolito: We call that pair, though, so let me draw it over here here's the other one here's the other one right, so this is chromosome one you inherited from your dad and chromosome to you inherited from your dad.
7:50
Andrew Ippolito: So let me draw chromosome to somewhere in there Okay, so we would call these two here if I was gonna highlight them, I want to call that pairing or that that that set.
8:03
Andrew Ippolito: A set of homologous chromosomes. Andrew Ippolito: or there's called humble Alex you can see homologous set you can say homologous pair it doesn't matter their home logs the reason their home allows is they have.
8:18
Andrew Ippolito: They have the same. Andrew Ippolito: location.
8:24
Andrew Ippolito: Of. Andrew Ippolito: they're centromere.
8:30
Andrew Ippolito: And they have the same genes.
8:36
Andrew Ippolito: In the same location.
8:41
Andrew Ippolito: So this is a very operational definition here you look at these two chromosomes and you're like Okay, they look visually they look exactly the same.
8:54
Andrew Ippolito: Well, what if another chromosome looks like another chromosome but then we wouldn't be able to really look at it visually I just so happens after each chromosome is unique enough where we can we can pull them out of the lineup.
9:08
Andrew Ippolito: nationally, let me give you let me take a. Second.
9:27
Oh here let's do this one.
9:39
Oh. There we go.
9:44
Andrew Ippolito: There this thing here, this is called a carrier.
9:49
Andrew Ippolito: This is a human carrier type a carrier type is a way of visualizing all of your chromosomes.
9:55
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, now I just randomly grab this from the Internet, and I can tell you that this one.
10:03
Andrew Ippolito: Is is not normal Can you see why what's wrong with this carrier type.
10:14
Andrew Ippolito: there's one. Taylor Campbell: there's three. Andrew Ippolito: Ways yes good.
10:22
Taylor Campbell: number eight. Andrew Ippolito: glasses are cut off anyone. Andrew Ippolito: Bottom probably yeah you're right that's. Andrew Ippolito: Right 21 hopes.
10:31
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so this if this is chromosome eating here, this must be 1920 2122 and then this is X and y.
10:43
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so you can see the sex of this individual is they have two X chromosomes so they're female.
10:49
Andrew Ippolito: And you can see that they are trisomy for chromosome 21 that's where i'll introduce two later don't worry if you to trisomy three there's three of one of them Okay, so what you're looking at here, though, if you look on the left hand side.
11:03
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, this is called a Meta face bread you don't have to know this for the test, but it's.
11:10
Andrew Ippolito: A spread basically what you do is you take a blood sample you grow some cells in a petri dish.
11:17
Andrew Ippolito: that's an asynchronous population meaning they're all over the map of the cell cycle you treat them other drug usually it's a drug called tax all which your book will mention.
11:27
Andrew Ippolito: taxol inhibits micro tubular D polymerization What that means is functionally it leads to an arrest of the men of fees stage of the cell cycle in my direct rightness smack in the middle of mitosis right you can't separate sister chrome and.
11:44
Andrew Ippolito: If you can't depot MRI is micro tutorials and so, if you prevent the cells.
11:50
Andrew Ippolito: machines from working it all stalls, and this is good, because in Meta phase right all the chromosomes are lined up in the in the middle there so then you've lost the cells.
12:02
Andrew Ippolito: And then you can so you can we used to do this lab actually what we call it the splat lab Steve Gus Horn was the one that brought it into the classroom is wonderful, they don't do it anymore and we're not the classroom now, but basically you take.
12:15
Andrew Ippolito: These transform cell lines this transform hela cells which we talked about a little bit and you basically.
12:25
Andrew Ippolito: lice them by dropping them from a pipe pet from about three feet up from the microscope slide.
12:32
Andrew Ippolito: splat and they shatter basically and then you look under the microscope and you see you see chromosomes everywhere it's really cool.
12:40
Andrew Ippolito: So you can see here that these have been steamed right, you can see the banding patterns right you see the black and the white stripe ease.
12:49
Andrew Ippolito: And so what so there's a person called a carrier typist you can be one someday if you're really wanting to you have radiologists right, you have people who do.
12:59
Andrew Ippolito: sonar griffey right people who run the machine that lets you look at babies and then you have stereotype is this will just be another kind of a tech job and you basically are trained to find.
13:12
Andrew Ippolito: All the names of the chromosomes careers comes on one there's comes on to crimson they all have very.
13:17
Andrew Ippolito: Specific signatures. Andrew Ippolito: I always think of it it's kind of like, if you remember in the movie the matrix where he's looking at, although the green lines coming down, and you can see things.
13:28
Andrew Ippolito: Right he's like I see a lady in a red dress under that scene that's what this is like I see that you have.
13:35
Andrew Ippolito: This is a down syndrome that they just look at that picture on the left and say that they don't have to line it up that's for everybody else the carrier type this can look at this really quickly and say, oh no that's that's bad.
13:47
Andrew Ippolito: You know they'll and they'll probably be able to very quickly see those three.
13:53
Andrew Ippolito: Right. Andrew Ippolito: So, in any case now you get it, you can see the home blocks right, so this would be the one you got from mom this will be the one you got from dad right mom and dad and you'll see that there are some variations, like, for whatever reason you'll see that there's a difference there.
14:09
Andrew Ippolito: Right or sometimes it's just the nature of the way it was themed right that does seem like to be a big difference there, in any case, but that's a carrier type that's the console our body cells are somatic cells all have two copies of each chromosome so we call that kind of self deployed.
14:31
Andrew Ippolito: And those are the cells that have to. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so N, is how many unique chromosomes are in the genome and then to end says we have two copies of each one right we've doubled it.
14:48
Andrew Ippolito: That makes sense to me. Victoria Bloemker: yeah a lot more Thank you you're welcome.
14:54
Andrew Ippolito: Hopefully that helped everybody.
14:59
Andrew Ippolito: Sorry So where are we here.
15:05
Andrew Ippolito: Is that yes, go back to the PowerPoint.
15:12
Andrew Ippolito: So. Andrew Ippolito: Sexual reproduction likely evolved very, very early.
15:23
Andrew Ippolito: It might have evolved before multicellular or it primarily did evolve before multicellular organisms, it probably evolved coincident with.
15:33
Andrew Ippolito: It probably happened early on in the protests right so So if you think of evolutionary time first we had prokaryotes right.
15:40
Andrew Ippolito: And then eventually we had proteus single celled you carriers right and then some of them at each other right and we had our mitochondria and our chloroplasts that gave rise to.
15:53
Andrew Ippolito: i'm sorry i'm messing up my story, I should say these guys at each other, giving rise to the protest.
16:01
Andrew Ippolito: And some of the protests right we're photosynthetic and some each other and the produce all gave rise to three lineages that we have today right, we have the animal kingdom, which we call the Meta zones, so your Meta zones, you can insult people without realizing you via your medicine.
16:25
it's nobody uses that word. Andrew Ippolito: You wild medicine wild Adam anyway, man is Oh, and I don't know why we call it that.
16:36
Andrew Ippolito: zone zoo and go to the zoo to see animals, reduce oh and do yeah and then you have the plants plan day.
16:47
Andrew Ippolito: As the formal name and then you have. Andrew Ippolito: A really fun people, the young guys, these are the multicellular that's the key, these are multicellular This is where all the tissues tissues right and you would say they acquire the trade Maltese sell you Larry the kingdom multicellular charities specialization.
17:11
Andrew Ippolito: specialization of function, we have different types of cells.
17:17
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, you are not multicellular if all of your cells are the same, they all do the same thing.
17:23
Andrew Ippolito: Right. Andrew Ippolito: Now earth's environment changes, sometimes dramatically quickly, but most of the time it's just a slow change.
17:34
Andrew Ippolito: And so every single time a population has another generation and another generation and older generation.
17:41
Andrew Ippolito: As the earth slowly changes those populations have to slowly change, so you can think of evolution as a synchronization and clocks between the rate of change of the environment and the rate of change of the genome.
17:55
Andrew Ippolito: And if those if that synchronization gets ripped apart.
18:00
Andrew Ippolito: Like during some kind of gigantic of men. Andrew Ippolito: Like a meteor strike or a global fire.
18:09
Andrew Ippolito: Then things go extinct they can't change fast enough.
18:16
Andrew Ippolito: And so it turns out. Andrew Ippolito: Sexual reproduction evolved.
18:23
Andrew Ippolito: to balance two things to balance the idea that a multicellular organisms needs to have its genome stay the same, because multicellular clarity requires a whole layer really multiple layers of complexity of regulation and balance that a single cell organism doesn't need to worry about.
18:45
Andrew Ippolito: So it has to have a very stable genome.
18:52
Andrew Ippolito: meaning, it does not change know mutations and if something does mistakenly happen, we kill it without produce.
19:02
Andrew Ippolito: or fire right OK. Andrew Ippolito: And then, so you can see, cancer is when something goes wrong and we get an unstable GMO.
19:11
Andrew Ippolito: Right, one of the hallmarks of cancer is genomic instability, instead of every cell dividing and having almost no differences in the next generation.
19:20
Andrew Ippolito: unstable genomes will give rise to hundreds of differences that's what causes cancer to rapidly progressing involve the resistance is.
19:28
Andrew Ippolito: Now, so, on the other side of the fence right so so this would be the individual, and let me get her on here so individuals have stable genomes.
19:40
Andrew Ippolito: So the question then is they go, how do I make sure the next generation has a completely different genome their mind if I need my genome, to be stable and that's where the specialization comes in the sex sells right sex, sexual reproduction.
19:56
Andrew Ippolito: This is the hedging of the beds, to make sure that the next generation is different.
20:03
Andrew Ippolito: And each of the three lineages have taken this and done a little bit of a different take to it, based on the way they live their life.
20:13
Andrew Ippolito: And that's how i'm going, I want to teach you how it works now so so tori I show it's great that you asked that question because we're gonna have to see this and into and everywhere here.
20:21
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so here here's what i'm gonna do for you i'm going to instead of just like showing you all that noise at once, when I give it to you slowly here you got.
20:30
Andrew Ippolito: we're going to start with an adult. Andrew Ippolito: Here is my artistic representation of the adult female.
20:41
Andrew Ippolito: And here. Andrew Ippolito: will be the adult male.
20:48
Okay.
20:54
Andrew Ippolito: They have somatic cells right. Andrew Ippolito: Their body cells, we see that there to it.
21:02
Andrew Ippolito: OK, so the key here this so this this might sound like a not nothing burger, but this is the key one key point there multicellular state is deployed.
21:15
Andrew Ippolito: Multi cellular. State.
21:23
is deployed. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, in other words, their tissues, they have tissues in this stage of their life.
21:32
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, they each generate what's called a ganymede.
21:38
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so gamma isn't is the formal name for for generic SEC sell gamma gamma.
21:46
Andrew Ippolito: gamma through always have blood.
21:52
Andrew Ippolito: there's a big. Andrew Ippolito: there's.
21:59
Andrew Ippolito: The key here is, these are.
22:06
Andrew Ippolito: musicians, let me use the right word here unicellular.
22:15
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so for animals there multicellular state is deployed.
22:22
Andrew Ippolito: Their gametes are happy, but there's unicellular status halfway.
22:29
Andrew Ippolito: Right those egg sells a mature egg so or a mature sperm cell, they are what you would call you know let's write this down there called terminally differentiated meaning they will never go through mitosis again.
22:41
Andrew Ippolito: it's the end of the line for them there's no mitosis that an happily egg several ever go through there's no mitosis that a mature sperm cell will ever go through these are terminally differentiate they are a my topic.
23:00
Andrew Ippolito: And then. Andrew Ippolito: What happens.
23:06
Andrew Ippolito: Without going into too much detail here. Andrew Ippolito: We have something called single me.
23:14
Andrew Ippolito: The fusion event. Andrew Ippolito: And we get what's called a zygote.
23:22
Andrew Ippolito: zygote is unicellular. Andrew Ippolito: But it is to end.
23:29
Andrew Ippolito: It is deploy.
23:38
Andrew Ippolito: And then from there, we go through growth in differentiation.
23:49
Andrew Ippolito: And we get. Andrew Ippolito: Some multicellular.
23:57
deploy. To. Andrew Ippolito: More back where we started against the cycle is now complete.
24:05
Taylor Campbell: Oh, the psycho Spar when i'm.
24:10
Taylor Campbell: There the two different. Taylor Campbell: Get the sex sells come together and form that that's the bb.
24:20
Andrew Ippolito: know so well yeah so. Andrew Ippolito: When I say I didn't draw the baby here's the baby.
24:26
Andrew Ippolito: So this one cell becomes two cells 468 1632 baby.
24:35
Andrew Ippolito: To growth and differentiation what from one cell to trillions of cells.
24:40
Andrew Ippolito: How is bad be formed. Andrew Ippolito: I just read an article yesterday they're shutting down Yahoo answers.
24:49
Andrew Ippolito: yeah for the day, which has been around for 16 years and it's been a cesspool of misinformation.
24:57
Andrew Ippolito: So, but how are babby forum that was one of the best means when I was, I still remember when it first hit it was I was like there's this one guy who took that whole thread and read it and narrated it and oh my God, I was just crying.
25:16
Andrew Ippolito: or he i'm sorry no he didn't he didn't read that thread he he went through Yahoo answers or or Yahoo questions.
25:24
Andrew Ippolito: And he pulled out all the questions that were like that that had the word pregnant in it pertinent per go paragon in the US, and he was just narrating the monster funny so funny anyway, so this is how bad it is formed.
25:39
Andrew Ippolito: and stick figure form, without any details.
25:45
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: So if we zoom out here, you can see.
25:50
Andrew Ippolito: let's let's just think about that so multicellular deployed. Andrew Ippolito: unicellular halfway that's, the key to the mountain.
26:01
Andrew Ippolito: met his own life cycle is the multicellular is deployed the units others happy, but that's the key Okay, we never, never, never, never have happily cell going through.
26:13
Andrew Ippolito: Anything it doesn't go through a cell cycle it's just there and then they immediately have that single me happen okay so by understanding that pattern, you can immediately understand the pattern of the fungus now the fungus is all of this, except switch the handle it and the dip what.
26:32
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so watch this let's do fungus now.
26:37
Andrew Ippolito: So an adult fungus. Andrew Ippolito: looks like a web of tubes.
26:45
Andrew Ippolito: This is the stick figure version of a fungus. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, this is called the mycelium.
26:52
Andrew Ippolito: I seen that word before notice I didn't draw.
27:02
Andrew Ippolito: A mushroom. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, a mushroom is basically the the sex organ.
27:14
Andrew Ippolito: Okay that's where that is a, that is, the reproductive or organism organism oh my God the reproductive organs.
27:24
Taylor Campbell: Okay, so um my Sam, how do you say. Andrew Ippolito: So the mycelium is happy, so this is multicellular.
27:33
Taylor Campbell: Is that, like the body cells. Andrew Ippolito: yeah yeah yeah yeah, this is the. Andrew Ippolito: This is the somatic tissue.
27:41
Andrew Ippolito: It is multicellular it is halfway. Andrew Ippolito: and
27:51
Okay. Andrew Ippolito: Welcome to something completely different than us.
27:59
Andrew Ippolito: People who study this are called my colleges. Andrew Ippolito: This is my college.
28:07
Andrew Ippolito: you're college. My guys. Angela Harbeck: I thought you said that i'm halfway or uni salyer are good I just.
28:17
Andrew Ippolito: For for Meta zones. Angela Harbeck: So it's different. Andrew Ippolito: Exactly that's the inside, I want you to walk away with here.
28:26
Andrew Ippolito: You have we're learning three life cycles, we just learned them at his own life. Andrew Ippolito: cycle that's when you grow up with everybody's familiar with that one I did that was what I just did up there was like me.
28:35
Andrew Ippolito: explaining the sky is blue and water is wet right that's it we it's part of who we are, we understand that our cells are deployed and our anchor half floyd or spurs half blood thinner sign closer to play so now here's something completely different that's like aliens.
28:53
Andrew Ippolito: The adult fungus. Andrew Ippolito: is happily. Andrew Ippolito: This is going to be a very important characteristic when we learn about beetle empty them later beetle and tatum worked on a bread mold and prosper across.
29:07
Andrew Ippolito: And they induced mutations within them to try to understand, to understand how genes work, what a gene represents and.
29:16
Andrew Ippolito: The reason they selected bread mold was it easy to grow, but more importantly being halfway, it means that you only have one copy of all of your genes which means if there's a mutation and one of them you're going to affect something.
29:30
Andrew Ippolito: Right, whereas if you have a backup copy and only one gets mutated chances are you're not going to see any difference there that's like a recessive trait so you use halfway cells, when you want to study genetics.
29:42
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so. Andrew Ippolito: there's mom and dad.
29:51
Andrew Ippolito: They produce, and let me see if I can do this without. Andrew Ippolito: i'm gonna i'm gonna look I because I don't have this burned into my head nearly as well.
30:06
Andrew Ippolito: yeah Okay, these will go through not meiosis but mitosis.
30:14
Andrew Ippolito: And they will produce a unicellular. Andrew Ippolito: When I call this we're gonna call this Academy.
30:24
Andrew Ippolito: And we're going to just come back here again yeah.
30:29
Andrew Ippolito: yeah it's literally everything's the same except.
30:35
Andrew Ippolito: The end of the 200. Andrew Ippolito: swap So these are still at.
30:40
Okay. Andrew Ippolito: So that that's kind of a difference is they they're unicellular gametes are of the same.
30:48
Andrew Ippolito: copy number, you know there's still an there's still happen, but then what's going to happen as a sink me occurs between these two got means.
30:59
Andrew Ippolito: So again, you have sync to me. Andrew Ippolito: And you get as I go.
31:07
Andrew Ippolito: And that zygote is to end it is unicellular.
31:12
Andrew Ippolito: And that zygote does not. Andrew Ippolito: become multicellular it immediately goes into meiosis.
31:26
Andrew Ippolito: And you get these are called. Andrew Ippolito: they're not going to go into the details in this slide these are spores.
31:35
Andrew Ippolito: And that's what a sport is ready, the word spore you've seen this word your whole life you never really knew what it meant a spore is a single cell that has the ability to become a multicellular adult without the need for fertilization.
31:54
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so these are all happy.
32:01
Andrew Ippolito: This would be called spore relation but you'll learn that next semester. Andrew Ippolito: And so, then the cells basically.
32:08
Andrew Ippolito: become. multicellular.
32:15
Victoria Bloemker: Do you mind repeating the definition for sport. Victoria Bloemker: A spore is.
32:22
Andrew Ippolito: A single cell.
32:29
Andrew Ippolito: will say with. Andrew Ippolito: The capacity.
32:34
Andrew Ippolito: to become. Andrew Ippolito: A Maltese cellular adult.
32:46
Andrew Ippolito: And you could say i'm prophecies without. Andrew Ippolito: The need.
32:53
Andrew Ippolito: For fertilization.
33:02
Andrew Ippolito: And so, our air is filled with spores spores are everywhere that's why you can't go to the store buy a loaf of bread come home open it take a piece of bread out put in your refrigerator and then wait for a little while and not have bread built for.
33:20
Andrew Ippolito: The dust in the air around you right, not your breathing is in right now there are spores everywhere.
33:33
Andrew Ippolito: Every surface is coated with them and they're generally enter unless they're given the conditions to grow go ahead alexa.
33:39
Alexa Deprisco: Is the zygote the sport, then. Andrew Ippolito: know. Andrew Ippolito: The zygote is the zygote and the zygote is to N and the zygote goes through meiosis to create the half point sports.
33:57
Alexis Micewski: So for the beginning when it goes through mitosis instead of meiosis, is there not as much like genetic variation there because of it.
34:09
Andrew Ippolito: well. Andrew Ippolito: So that would occur here, there is a meiosis it's just it's inverted from what you're familiar with we're used to thinking about our somatic cells going through a myopic event.
34:22
Andrew Ippolito: But what's happening here is this is, I go here right the psycho has both the mom and dad's genomes in there right because see we had to individual.
34:31
Andrew Ippolito: Go back up here right so here, you can think of it like this, this cell has the maternal genome, this has a paternal genome, this has both.
34:40
Andrew Ippolito: So that's all right there with the both goes through the meiosis and so yeah they get just as much the other crossing over and the independent assortment yada yada yada so each one of these is unique from each other.
34:54
Andrew Ippolito: So it's the same concepts just a variation of it.
34:59
Good question. Andrew Ippolito: Any other questions.
35:09
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so now that you understand the fungus and the animal Now you can now, you can understand plants, and I can just say this i'm not even gonna draw anything yet i'm just going to say plants.
35:20
Andrew Ippolito: Have what we call. Andrew Ippolito: alternation.
35:26
Andrew Ippolito: of generation. Andrew Ippolito: What a fun freeze alternation of generations, the idea here is plants have both.
35:38
Andrew Ippolito: uni cellular. Andrew Ippolito: And multi multicellular.
35:48
Andrew Ippolito: And to happen and deployed. Andrew Ippolito: So, in other words, there is a mature sexually reproducing.
35:58
Andrew Ippolito: Half Lloyd version. Andrew Ippolito: And a mature sexually reproducing deployed version.
36:06
Andrew Ippolito: And their names are the specified.
36:11
Andrew Ippolito: And the gmita fight.
36:33
Andrew Ippolito: Sure, I see this right. Andrew Ippolito: yeah so the ideas it's called unified it gives rise to gametes.
36:42
Andrew Ippolito: spotify gives gives rise to sports. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so what's a gamma gamma, it is a halfway sell that needs to go through fusion right gametes need sinker me.
37:00
Andrew Ippolito: spores don't.
37:06
Andrew Ippolito: But I guess when I gave you that definition of sport earlier and I said they don't need to have fertilization event, they don't need a fusion of it, they don't need to merge with another so.
37:16
Andrew Ippolito: They can do it all by themselves, thank you very much. Andrew Ippolito: They don't need any.
37:23
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so let's for grows up. Andrew Ippolito: And becomes as the multicellular.
37:29
Andrew Ippolito: can modify the fight grows up and becomes a multi site or spotify.
37:34
Andrew Ippolito: And that's the most confusing diagram you're going to see that so let's jump into the PowerPoint here.
37:39
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so looking at the middle here, this is, this is the alternation of generations ready see this right here that's Moss alright that's fuzzy soft green masa masa looks like this, if you take one piece of it.
37:53
Andrew Ippolito: Okay mosque lacks the secondary cell wall mosque can't grow high because it'll fall over that's why it's short they're the most primitive plants.
38:03
Andrew Ippolito: Okay yeah mosses ferns conifers and flowering plants that's it okay so masa and that's the order of when they above.
38:13
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so Moses came first they're the shortest they require water and there they have the distinction of the four they have the most obvious spotify.
38:23
Andrew Ippolito: But here Okay, so that that's the unified when you see in everyday life and mouse land that's the way.
38:30
Andrew Ippolito: They give rise to gametes. Andrew Ippolito: Right, so there will be one individual making a gummy there would be a different individual making got me, and they would go through fertilization, and then we give rise to this, I go, which would then have a multicellular you see this thing looks like a flower.
38:43
Andrew Ippolito: kind of looks like this, that is, the spotify.
38:48
Andrew Ippolito: And in the early spring actually around now if you go outside in the next week or two or today you just look every if we go for walks daily walks look for some Moss and you might start to see little things popping out of it.
39:00
Andrew Ippolito: Okay that's the specified version. Andrew Ippolito: And notice it's it's taller than the unified.
39:09
Andrew Ippolito: that's unique to us the trees outside the arms and the legs and the action that's Bruce their sport fight is vastly reduced called reduced and you can't see it it's an appalling Greens.
39:25
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so a mile a mile spotify it is hidden within a it's microscopic essentially.
39:33
Andrew Ippolito: What you see is the Community.
39:39
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, the gmita fight is how upload. Andrew Ippolito: A sport fight is deployed so that spotify gives rise to that have played sports by going through meiosis right so meiosis occurs in there and then the little spores that come out.
39:58
Andrew Ippolito: will give rise to the multicellular. Andrew Ippolito: Give me to fight, which would then have the low fruiting body pop up and get this bar fights right so that's the alternation of generations that's what plants do.
40:16
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so these are the dances of life, those are the three basic dance of life.
40:22
Alexis Micewski: So, just to clarify it starts with a gamut and that fertilizes and then it has a spore and then it goes back around.
40:30
Andrew Ippolito: So you're you're skipping the adult stages there let's make sure so let's see, starting with the. Alexis Micewski: gametes.
40:36
Andrew Ippolito: You get this I got this I got gives rise to the sport, the sport fight then gives rise to the sports the sports then give rise to the Community fights.
40:50
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so gametes fusion adult.
40:55
Andrew Ippolito: spores growth adult.
41:01
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, the key is is there's a multicellular state. Andrew Ippolito: there's the multicellular state for each of the halfway and then.
41:09
Andrew Ippolito: alexa you look very confused help me out here.
41:15
Andrew Ippolito: what's the part that's confusing.
41:20
Andrew Ippolito: Or you just are you just kind of an office. Alexa Deprisco: I like it's interesting I guess um.
41:27
Alexa Deprisco: So okay so it's worth made is not a score. Andrew Ippolito: Correct Okay, this is for a fight gives rise to the sport sport fight is the multicellular deploy like we would be this if I was just thinking of like some SCI fi short story where, if you took this life cycle and give it to humans What would it kind of be like and it gets weird fast.
41:51
Andrew Ippolito: Right your sperm is grow up into little babies. Andrew Ippolito: And the eggs grow up into little babies and then those two babies get together and then they have an individual that's how this would work if humans did this alternation of generations, there would be multicellular have played cells running around.
42:08
Andrew Ippolito: And they would be fundamentally maybe they were tetrapods and looks like shaggy animals like bigfoot they would look phenotypically completely distinct, just like.
42:18
Andrew Ippolito: If you look at this picture here let's zoom in a little bit more right there's two different bodies there there's a long stock that has that brown little trippy thing and then there's the the Moss itself Those are two bodies.
42:30
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so if you apply this to the animal right the sperm and the egg would get released, and then they would develop into something completely different than what the adult looks like.
42:43
Andrew Ippolito: Now, thanks to go right that short story. Andrew Ippolito: that'd be so interesting, so I mean does that make sense, though.
42:50
Andrew Ippolito: I didn't want to spend I don't want to spend this much on board this this again this is, this is the diversity of life, you just got a little sampling of a bio to is all about.
42:59
Andrew Ippolito: Bio to is all about the diversity between everything you're gonna you're in this classroom learning about all the universal traits of life, what what do we all have in common.
43:09
Andrew Ippolito: By oh two is about what do we all do differently. Andrew Ippolito: Okay that's it's a fundamentally different class.
43:18
Andrew Ippolito: And that's all i'll say about Chapter 13 so more questions i'm fine with more questions I don't have any new material for this and we're going to get to genetics.
43:27
Alexa Deprisco: One last thing about that so yeah. Alexa Deprisco: To gametes would make a zygote but then want to spores then would.
43:35
Andrew Ippolito: would make us no, no, no, so this, we see how this poor here how the arrow just kind of goes to this.
43:43
Andrew Ippolito: Whereas right, in other words, you see this, you see how these two here have the arrows come together.
43:50
Andrew Ippolito: that's the single me right there this arrow goes this way, this is where you get a fusion event notice that the spores go their own way.
43:58
Andrew Ippolito: They go their separate ways, so a single sport yeah so like like get this into your head us bore becomes a multi sailor individual in a half points deep.
44:11
Andrew Ippolito: OK, so the mitosis. Andrew Ippolito: would be just like my meiosis to our meiosis to just has one set of chromosomes well there's your there's your fungus mitosis.
44:23
Andrew Ippolito: Okay.
44:29
Good.
44:39
Andrew Ippolito: yeah yeah So if you look at the the animal version of this there's the gamma right, so you can see here the adult.
44:45
Andrew Ippolito: gives rise to gametes this one's going its own way right that'll go fertilize something else, but this one here in order for this to reach the zygote state, you need this input here.
44:56
Andrew Ippolito: You always need a fusion event there that's what makes it got me to gamma, it has to fuse with another one right here's here's the fusion here's ganymede here's the future Okay, where a sports spores can be.
45:10
Andrew Ippolito: can give rise to the individual, the multicellular individually.
45:19
Andrew Ippolito: Or, in the last thing i'll say is. Andrew Ippolito: There are organisms that can do both.
45:26
Andrew Ippolito: But actually I shouldn't say like that, so this is sexual reproduction Okay, a sexual reproduction.
45:40
Andrew Ippolito: which would essentially just be mitosis right. Andrew Ippolito: So, think about a pair of museum and the pond and it goes through mitosis now you have to pair means you they're free living unicellular creatures and they're not really creatures.
45:56
Andrew Ippolito: organisms okay so there's a lot of protests that when times are plenty when times are.
46:06
Andrew Ippolito: Times are planning and there's lots of food everything's comfy they'll just go through mitosis when the environment gets stressed, or they start to get deprived of nutrients they'll go through sexual reproduction.
46:18
Andrew Ippolito: Because think about that isn't that interesting the trigger for sexual reproduction of stress, because that tells them that something's changing.
46:26
Andrew Ippolito: And so they need to go through all the X, they have to put all the extra energy in to go through sexual reproduction, so that the offspring are slightly different hopefully somebody survives whatever is going on in the environment.
46:43
Andrew Ippolito: Okay alright so that's that's chapter 13 and I want to i'm going to stop the recording here, so we can have a free a fresh genetics lecture.