https://youtu.be/AIioFxfO1Go?si=hWg8N5_KqK7RhoS-
0:01
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, this is, this is our formal lecture one, this is basically an introduction of biology in a way
0:06
Andrew Ippolito: I call this the order to life. Well, I think maybe that's the textbooks version of it. Any case. That's my son jack back when he was like five, we went to the aquarium over in Camden
0:15
Andrew Ippolito: And we went to the hippo cage, the hippo hippo exhibit and it was like high noon, and the sun was coming down, just in this perfect way of casting us light. And so I got this great shot.
0:27
Andrew Ippolito: This really this captures that that childhood curiosity that you have to find again when you become a scientist. So here's one one amazing video
0:45
Andrew Ippolito: And so what you're seeing here, this, this is not a clip from the new avatar movie.
0:51
Andrew Ippolito: This is not Pandora.
0:54
Andrew Ippolito: I think there's in California somewhere.
0:57
And
0:59
Andrew Ippolito: When the waves crashing nine. You can see this amazing phosphor essence.
1:06
Andrew Ippolito: Bio fluorescence.
1:08
Andrew Ippolito: There.
1:09
Andrew Ippolito: Here's microorganisms in there that only upon getting slammed by the oceans.
1:18
Andrew Ippolito: By crashing ashore just pay a stress response so that we don't know for sure exactly why they glow. We think it's a stress response. It's a way of blinding predators and then running away.
1:29
Andrew Ippolito: But
1:30
Andrew Ippolito: But right it's magical. It's just, it's amazing. This is what captures our imaginations and makes us want to study what's going on in the world. It turns out the things that caused this are these, these guys here called
1:47
Andrew Ippolito: Dial flagellate here they are. These are scanning electron micro graph. So, these little critters. Their, their own protest phylum
1:57
Andrew Ippolito: Their, their own branch of life. There's nobody else like these things they have a test, which is there's outer coating this outer shell and they always have to flagella.
2:09
Andrew Ippolito: One's going along horizontally and one's going along vertically and that causes them to swim in these very dizzying patterns.
2:18
Andrew Ippolito: They're also the cause of things like the red tide.
2:22
Andrew Ippolito: If you ever heard about that we have these horrible spreads of this stuff that just blights and kills everything along the ocean short in some places, these guys also cause that. So there are mixed bag.
2:41
Andrew Ippolito: And here's another one of my favorite quotes nothing in biology makes sense except in light of evolution.
2:49
Andrew Ippolito: If you take all of the facts, we've learned about biology and you remove evolution from the equation, it becomes a loose collection of seemingly unrelated nonsense.
3:02
Andrew Ippolito: That biology as a science only makes sense in light of evolution.
3:08
Andrew Ippolito: This is a picture of the ocean floor. Some of the darkest regions. This is just next to what are called black smokers and white smokers. These are the deep sea thermal events, which is where we believe life began
3:24
Andrew Ippolito: You know, three and a half billion years ago, and these these little habitats, a super isolated habitats weren't even discovered until the 1970s late 70s.
3:37
Andrew Ippolito: They were postulated to exist, based on thermal anomalies. There's your observation.
3:44
Andrew Ippolito: But we lacked the technology to go down and look until the late 70s, and we created this little robot named Alvin me through over the side of the boat.
3:56
Andrew Ippolito: Had a tether on them for electricity and we drove them down there and we turned on the lights and started recording
4:02
Andrew Ippolito: And what we discovered blew our minds, we didn't think we were going to discover much of anything down there may be some microbes. Instead, we found the entire ecosystems of exotic animals.
4:12
Andrew Ippolito: You see these shrimp.
4:14
Andrew Ippolito: These are these these enormous shrimp. If you look carefully, I don't know if you can see it really well here, like maybe this guy here.
4:20
Andrew Ippolito: They have these crazy big googly eye things. It turns out, those are highly evolved thermo sensors that let them since very small fluctuations in temperature.
4:32
Andrew Ippolito: Why, because they live in a little slice of survival land if they get too close to the deep sea thermal event they die because it's boiling
4:42
Andrew Ippolito: And if they go too far in the other direction they freeze because it's almost it's pretty much zero degrees. And so they can only live in this little sliver of temperate area and they have to be able to sense that
4:53
Andrew Ippolito: Right, there's crabs, a groom each other. We found that they farm off of each other. These little bacteria, we observe them eating off of each other, kind of like the way he picked through each other's hair.
5:04
Andrew Ippolito: These, these crabs do that.
5:07
All sorts of cool stuff.
5:10
Andrew Ippolito: So what we're gonna do this semester is we're gonna learn biology through the lens of science, we're going to apply everything we just learned about the last day and a half.
5:23
Andrew Ippolito: To the study of this this phenomenon that is you could think of life as an emergent property of chemistry, physics and math.
5:35
That's where things start to get messy.
5:38
Andrew Ippolito: So biology at the heart of it is a study of two things. It's the study of the unity of life.
5:44
Andrew Ippolito: And the diversity of life. What we mean by that when we see unity of life that everything that we come across all the empirical knowledge. We've derived from our observations and our tests show us
6:01
Andrew Ippolito: That so factually that everything has
6:06
Andrew Ippolito: A core
6:08
Andrew Ippolito: List of traits that are the same.
6:13
Andrew Ippolito: For example, everything's made of cells, everything's got DNA all the coatings, the same
6:22
Andrew Ippolito: And what we're going to do this semester is we're really we're going to focus almost exclusively on this facet. And that's really that's what bio one is you're taking the course what bio 121 by one principles of biology, one that's the unity of life.
6:39
Andrew Ippolito: By 122
6:41
Andrew Ippolito: The diversity of life.
6:45
Andrew Ippolito: The idea that all of these things that have all these unifying characteristics are also incredibly diverse
6:54
Andrew Ippolito: There are so many wonderful variations on these themes
7:00
Andrew Ippolito: And so evolution theory is our best model to explain these two observations that life on Earth appears to be unified, it has a unified set of characteristics and that life on Earth is incredibly diverse
7:16
Andrew Ippolito: Why why why because evolution by natural selection.
7:22
Andrew Ippolito: So here's the thing. The Tree of Life as we call it.
7:29
Andrew Ippolito: When we go out in the world that observant empirically looks like this. Lots of branches.
7:36
Andrew Ippolito: It could have looked like this.
7:41
Andrew Ippolito: Just like one branch, maybe two. In other words, the world could have been filled with nothing but like humans and dogs.
7:52
Which is way better than humans and cats.
8:04
Andrew Ippolito: But it's not. We have all sorts of things other than cats.
8:11
Like starfish. What's up with them.
8:15
Andrew Ippolito: They have a water vascular system. They have a hydraulic pump system that's how they stick to everything. And they're made out of this stuff that melts and then freezes again star Fisher crazy things. They are so alien
8:32
Andrew Ippolito: And despite that, so they're called the kind of terms.
8:36
Andrew Ippolito: There are other relatives or things like the sea cucumber.
8:41
Andrew Ippolito: Which is not a vegetable, but an animal.
8:47
Right.
8:51
Andrew Ippolito: Despite the fact that it kind of alien to us. They are our sister clean in the animal kingdom. In other words, whereas close to kind of germs as any other we're more close to the kind of germs than any of the other animals. The one thing we have in common with starfish. We have endo skeletons.
9:11
Andrew Ippolito: We've got bones. They got plates.
9:17
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so that's the unity of life and then diversity.
9:23
Andrew Ippolito: Now when we say life. There's no single definition to life.
9:30
Andrew Ippolito: Least scientists can agree on what we can do is we can take all of our empirical data all our empirical findings we can look at it all and we can come up with a laundry list of common traits and that's what this is.
9:46
Andrew Ippolito: We're going to go through these one at a time. I'm just rattle them off. Right now we have. So I call these drivers from an older book I used the hallmarks of life.
9:56
Andrew Ippolito: The first hallmark of life is life is ordered
9:59
Andrew Ippolito: There's an order to the chaos.
10:03
Andrew Ippolito: The second is, is that life is able to reproduce life begets life.
10:11
Andrew Ippolito: And in fact, that's the only way we can get life.
10:17
Andrew Ippolito: Modern Life in its current form.
10:21
Andrew Ippolito: The life. We do have grows
10:24
Andrew Ippolito: So cells get bigger. If they're unicellular or they'll divide
10:30
Andrew Ippolito: Their multicellular they'll develop if they're multicellular we develop bacteria don't really so you throw those two things to get their growth and development.
10:41
Andrew Ippolito: Life processes energy
10:45
Andrew Ippolito: We'll talk about what that means.
10:48
Later.
10:50
Andrew Ippolito: Life maintains itself through regulation.
10:55
Andrew Ippolito: You sweat when you're hot is shiver. When you're cold eat when you're hungry you maintain yourself you regulate your internal environment.
11:05
Andrew Ippolito: You respond to it, too.
11:08
Andrew Ippolito: Right, you're in an area that's dangerous you run away.
11:15
Andrew Ippolito: Or if you're out in the cold you run to the warmth, you'll respond to the changes in the environment.
11:20
Andrew Ippolito: starts raining, you run inside your seat cover.
11:28
Andrew Ippolito: life evolves.
11:32
Andrew Ippolito: It changes slowly over time to keep up with the changing environment.
11:37
Andrew Ippolito: You can call that adaptation
11:40
Andrew Ippolito: And then lastly, this the most basic unit of life is the cell. And that really cellular it kind of ties back into order, right. So we're going to go through all of this now.
11:50
Andrew Ippolito: The first one order here that's left over. I have to delete that. Forget the line there.
11:55
Andrew Ippolito: We talked about water. Remember our perspective lecture, we started with the courts and electrons and we make Adams, the atoms makeup macro molecules. When we say macro molecule. I kind of skipped. You can put molecule in here if you really want you
12:06
Andrew Ippolito: There is a difference a molecule is just a system of atoms that are made out of different elements. We'll talk about that in the next chapter, a macro molecule is
12:17
Andrew Ippolito: Generally
12:18
Andrew Ippolito: A polymer of some kind of meaning there's repeating units to it. Not always, but generally it's like DNA.
12:26
Andrew Ippolito: Or proteins or poly saccharine will learn about all that, too. And then later chapters.
12:33
Andrew Ippolito: You put a list together and you can make up the pieces of cells.
12:39
Andrew Ippolito: Like the mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell, or the membrane.
12:44
Andrew Ippolito: Or the nucleus.
12:46
Andrew Ippolito: And there's all sorts of stuff will learn about this semester. The Goji apparatus and the lice isms and paroxysms
12:55
Andrew Ippolito: The psycho skeleton.
12:58
Andrew Ippolito: Century was all sorts of fun stuff. And we put all that together and we get a cell. And that's why that lines there, that's the smallest unit.
13:09
Andrew Ippolito: That's the, that's the smallest system that we can look at and identify as having the property life.
13:19
Andrew Ippolito: With cell theory is all about is the smallest unit of life is the cell. There's nothing smaller than a cell that we consider life only cells meet the criteria that we just said before.
13:33
Andrew Ippolito: Right, that's not the end of the story for life. You go up a level. Now we're talking about multicellular charity, things like animals fungus and plants. A couple properties they make up systems of cells that are specialized
13:48
Andrew Ippolito: That's the key difference. That's one of the key differences between unicellular life and multicellular life is that unicellular life is made out of sales at all pretty much do the same thing that all generalists.
14:00
Andrew Ippolito: They're all entrepreneurs all wear all the hats.
14:04
Andrew Ippolito: Multicellular organisms like you and me. We have cells that have specialized to do different jobs.
14:13
Andrew Ippolito: And so when we have the systems of cells, we can call that a tissue.
14:18
Andrew Ippolito: And so you have mucosal and you have neural tissue you have Aussies tissue right we have all sorts of different kinds of tissues. And when you put those together, you get your organs like your heart or your brain or your liver or your spleen.
14:34
Andrew Ippolito: And when you put those together and connect them. You can see that there are systems of them like the cardiovascular system.
14:41
Andrew Ippolito: The lymphatic system.
14:44
Andrew Ippolito: The nervous system. And when you put all the systems together and they are working in synergy with each other. You can now call that the organism.
14:55
Andrew Ippolito: Like you or me. And if you want you can even you could draw another line there.
15:02
Andrew Ippolito: That's generally where we keep ourselves. We're organisms.
15:07
Andrew Ippolito: But that's not where the story of life ends when you take the collection of organisms of the same species like our little zoom class here we can call that a population.
15:18
Andrew Ippolito: So there's your first formal definition here a population is a group of organisms.
15:25
Of the same species.
15:29
Andrew Ippolito: To species. Oh god, don't even ask that question yet.
15:33
Andrew Ippolito: That's not even easily answered.
15:36
There's different definitions of species.
15:39
Andrew Ippolito: So let's just say we agree that all humans are the same species. And we're a group of them. So we're a population that's what the word means population got a bunch of dogs are bunch of cats.
15:48
Andrew Ippolito: Are bunch of cows. You say that population of cattle that population of elm trees that population of bacteria.
15:57
Andrew Ippolito: When there's different species involved in the mix. When you have a collection of individual organisms of divergent species or a different species. Now we're talking about a community.
16:10
Andrew Ippolito: You talk about the forest community.
16:13
Andrew Ippolito: You talk about the community organisms that live in your house.
16:19
Andrew Ippolito: Well, we just have a population. We don't have any pets. It's just me. Oh, trust me, there's lots of things, living in your house. Besides, you
16:28
Now I'm creeped out.
16:31
Andrew Ippolito: There's a bunch of spiders in the walls and millipedes and yeah there's a bunch of arthropods in there, sorry to break it to you, and there's all sorts of proteins and microbes that you can't see. You know what most of us beneficial or neutral Ts. Don't worry about it.
16:48
Alexa DePrisco: Yeah, go ahead. So could you say, then a collection of populations would be a community.
16:54
Andrew Ippolito: What I say that, what's the community.
16:56
Alexa DePrisco: Could you say like a collection of populations and would create a community.
17:00
Andrew Ippolito: Yeah, you could say you take two populations and
17:02
Andrew Ippolito: smash them together, you get a community. So you can see a communities, a system of populations that is totally satisfied and then the neat thing there is, you know, usually you think of a population of things like
17:13
Andrew Ippolito: We're going to talk about systems, a lot this semester. And so this is a really important concept to get in your head. Again, you have a system it's again it's a collection of matter with a boundary
17:23
Andrew Ippolito: So you can think of a population as a group of organisms have the same species. Right. And you can, therefore, think of a community as a collection of organisms have different species.
17:33
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so you could you could say there's a community. And then, even though we don't have a boundary between all the dogs and all the people or whatever. You could still consider that system is containing a population so that population doesn't. They don't have to be in the corner.
17:50
Right.
17:51
Andrew Ippolito: You'll also see an analogy. Sure. When you do chemistry between molecules and compounds. Right, so like the analogy there is a molecule would be like a population like
18:03
Andrew Ippolito: molecular hydrogen is just hydrogen molecular oxygen, they think of like H2 or, oh, to our end to those are molecules, right, those aren't compounds, the compound has multiple elements. Those are populations of atoms. So you can think of something like water than like a community.
18:21
Andrew Ippolito: Right, there's that you can kind of tie an analogy there maybe
18:25
Andrew Ippolito: Make so community is multiple species. OK. So again, though it's a collection of organisms.
18:34
Andrew Ippolito: Now here's the part that I want you to really grow with. I want you to really take this next insight in and chew on it for a while. We're going to take the environment into account. Now the mountains in the wind and the sand in the forest and all the things
18:53
Andrew Ippolito: We can't have life without life without the environment.
19:00
Andrew Ippolito: They, they, they meet each other.
19:03
Andrew Ippolito: You can't just have life existing in the vacuum of space, you need some kind of scaffolding, maybe some kind of platform upon which life can exist.
19:18
Andrew Ippolito: We usually refer to this as an ecosystem.
19:22
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so when I say ecosystem. It's a pop. It's a group of organisms.
19:30
Andrew Ippolito: In consideration of their environment together. And so ecosystems are a unit of life. And so your environment as part of life. We can't separate the two.
19:43
Andrew Ippolito: This is where the philosophies of environmental ism come in.
19:48
Andrew Ippolito: The idea that we have to take care of our environment. In the same way that you take care of your room at home.
19:57
Andrew Ippolito: Right. Maybe you don't make your bed, maybe your beds all messy. Maybe you haven't changed your sheets in a while.
20:06
Andrew Ippolito: Or maybe you freshly launder your sheets every weekend. Make your bed every day.
20:10
Andrew Ippolito: Maybe you're a good steward of your environment or not.
20:14
Andrew Ippolito: Maybe you never clean and never vacuum and you got mold and fungus growing everywhere, and you get sick.
20:21
Andrew Ippolito: That's the idea.
20:23
Andrew Ippolito: Except, leave your room. I know that's hard to do these days.
20:28
Andrew Ippolito: And go outside and now think about your yard and think about your community and think about the region. Think about, think about right, we have to take care of it.
20:37
Andrew Ippolito: There's no I had this physics teacher in high school, Mr mcguckin he had all these little fun expressions and one of them was, there's no such place as a way
20:48
Andrew Ippolito: I'm just gonna throw this away.
20:52
Andrew Ippolito: Like it's gotta go somewhere.
20:56
Andrew Ippolito: You're just going to move it as far away from you as possible so you can ignore it.
21:01
Andrew Ippolito: Right. What do you do every day you go to store, you buy something, you bring it home. Eat it has got out of plastic and mesh and cardboard and what do you do today.
21:10
Andrew Ippolito: Well, I'm going to clean it all nice and I'm going to put on the recycling bin and what's it doing from there it goes to the curve and then it's out of sight, out of mind.
21:19
Andrew Ippolito: Right, turns out we're not recycling anything anymore. China's not accepting recyclables we're burning it all.
21:26
Andrew Ippolito: Yeah.
21:29
Andrew Ippolito: Or we're storing it somewhere. So in one day. We can recycle it. The point is, is that
21:36
Andrew Ippolito: We're gonna unnecessarily mess up another place. This goes down to the second law of thermodynamics, we'll talk about later in the semester.
21:44
Andrew Ippolito: There's always going to be an increase of chaos when there's order.
21:50
You can't escape it.
21:52
Andrew Ippolito: So that's the ecosystem. And from there you have what's called the biosphere. There's one. It's called Earth.
22:00
Andrew Ippolito: Didn't come with an instruction manual we're messing it up.
22:04
Andrew Ippolito: I should say we're making it less suitable for humanity.
22:09
Andrew Ippolito: Again, the earth is going to be just fine.
22:12
Andrew Ippolito: We're not
22:15
Okay.
22:17
Andrew Ippolito: That's it, that's the order to life. So you can, in a way, say the earth is alive, an organism that's all the way down here organisms have, you know, everything below it, but not above it.
22:31
Andrew Ippolito: That said, you could see your community, you have a microbiome, you've got stuff going all over your body.
22:37
Andrew Ippolito: Dozens and dozens of species of different things all helping you.
22:42
Andrew Ippolito: Very few hindering you you have bacteria that live on your skin that prevent bad bacteria from taken over.
22:51
There, helping you out.
22:53
Andrew Ippolito: Yeah, bacteria in your gut that make vitamins you need
22:56
From your food that you couldn't make yourself, you'd be sick without him.
23:01
Andrew Ippolito: Your community.
23:05
Andrew Ippolito: From their perspective, you're an ecosystem.
23:11
Andrew Ippolito: Each level of that order gives rise to completely new characteristics that make no sense at the level below it.
23:21
Andrew Ippolito: We call these kinds of properties emergent properties.
23:26
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, now your book your chapter one does a good job explaining the key differences between reductionism and systems biology and these are important concept. You have to know these, you'll see, I imagine, they'll be quizzes and tests. Questions on this kind of these concepts.
23:40
Andrew Ippolito: These are approaches that humans take to studying science reductionism is the approach where you start with the fundamental building block.
23:53
Andrew Ippolito: And you study it in the hopes of getting insight into how it works into the system. For example, studying the molecular structure of a certain kind of protein.
24:03
Andrew Ippolito: Or studying a particular kind of tissue that's the reductionist approach.
24:12
Andrew Ippolito: Systems Biology, you can think of as the holistic approach just starting at the top and looking at the relationships between all the moving parts.
24:25
Andrew Ippolito: There is no right or wrong way. Don't think one of these is better than the other.
24:32
Andrew Ippolito: It's all about the questions you're asking
24:38
Andrew Ippolito: The questions that make you curious inform the way you do your science.
24:47
Okay.
24:50
Andrew Ippolito: So here's just a simple list of examples of emergent properties for each of the given levels of life's orders starting at the bottom here. Now we got atoms. And so you would say that to Adams coming together. You can think of chemical bonding.
25:06
Andrew Ippolito: So bonding is an emergent property of atomic systems.
25:10
Andrew Ippolito: A single atom right so this is how you think about it, if you like, what is that an emergent property or not if it makes sense. It's not. If it doesn't make sense. It's an emergent property here. Let me see it for the example take just a single atom of hydrogen, just by itself.
25:25
Andrew Ippolito: It can't bond with itself, talking about it bonding makes no sense. You have to have another atom there so bonding becomes a characteristic that systems of atoms have
25:36
Andrew Ippolito: Okay.
25:38
Andrew Ippolito: If you look at the cell, the cell has a metabolism.
25:44
Andrew Ippolito: Well, what's metabolism will learn about that in a second is basically the sum total of all the chemical reactions in a cell. You could also say it's the sum total of reactions and an organism. Right. So a single molecule, it makes no sense to talk about the metabolism.
25:59
Andrew Ippolito: That a water molecule has
26:02
Andrew Ippolito: Right. But, but it just it's nonsensical.
26:06
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, muscle contraction. Can you imagine talking about muscle contraction when talking when referring to a single molecule of water or a single cell.
26:17
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, no, it's a tissue thing vision, being able to to take all of these wavelengths of light and fuse them together and get a cohesive picture and make sense of it.
26:27
Andrew Ippolito: That requires not just your eyes, but your brain that requires an entire visual system that's crazy complicated a single I can't see a single cell within your I can't see vision as a emergent property of the system, the visual system.
26:47
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, your immune system. Think of an organ system. Think of your, your lymphatic system and your blood right so the plot the level of organ system you have immunity. The concept of immunity.
26:58
Okay.
27:00
Andrew Ippolito: Cognition, I think, therefore I am.
27:03
Andrew Ippolito: You the organism can cognitive
27:09
Andrew Ippolito: You can't adapt to the environment, slowly over millions of years but populations of humans can so adaptation to the environment as an emergent property of populations papi. So this is how you would say it populations evolve.
27:22
Andrew Ippolito: Organisms do not
27:25
Andrew Ippolito: Organisms respond to the environment populations adapt over time.
27:35
Andrew Ippolito: Here's one that's that'll probably make a lot of intuitive sense to your prediction.
27:41
Andrew Ippolito: This only makes sense in the context of a community. Think of the classic example of up and up in Canada and the boreal forests, you have
27:49
Andrew Ippolito: White. Snow bunnies and FOX FOX is on the bunnies foxes eat the bunnies. The bunny populations go down the fox population goes down.
27:58
Andrew Ippolito: And the bunny popular when the fast population goes down the bundle population goes up the fast population goes up and they've studied this. You can see the ups and downs of these two different
28:10
Andrew Ippolito: Populations. Yeah, go ahead. Alexa. I didn't realize
28:14
Andrew Ippolito: Oh, we're over time. Oh, you guys. I warned you about this. I'm over time by 10 minutes. All right. I'll finish this slide will be done.
28:20
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, yeah. Please, please feel free to interrupt me like Dr. It's one o'clock class over terrible at this. Especially the beginning of the semester.
28:29
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, the last one carbon cycling, we have we have these elemental cycles and we'll pick up will pick up exactly there on Wednesday we'll go from there. Okay.
28:37
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so I'm going to actually know what I mentioned that I invoke this idea. So this slide here emergent properties will be on the quiz on Wednesday. Okay, but nothing after this. Okay. So study up to this point in the unit study guide the chapter.
28:57
Andrew Ippolito: And I'll make I'll tailor the quiz to not include anything after this point. Okay, don't freak out about the
29:04
Jordan Russell: Quiz.
29:05
Andrew Ippolito: It's gonna be fine.
29:08
Everything's gonna be fine. I'm going to stop here.