https://youtu.be/jCq-wjPqxm0?si=kqp69EXf6D3l38_l
0:00
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, this is a part two of our water lecture and. Andrew Ippolito: If I go suddenly mute that's because my batteries died on my microphone which has a little flashing light on it so just let me know the moment you stop being able to hear me and then i'll have to change my batteries out okay actually you know what i'm gonna.
0:20
Andrew Ippolito: just give me a second I wouldn't do that now so just. Andrew Ippolito: If you're watching this from home here i'll disable my video, for now, if you're watching from home fast forward into you see me again all right i'll be right back i'm just gonna go over there.
1:04
Andrew Ippolito: My office, I had to get over underneath my. screen.
1:10
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, all right i'm going to bring my. Andrew Ippolito: i'm back here we go.
1:17
Andrew Ippolito: And let's talk about water so when we left last left off with water, our old friend water that give her up life.
1:27
Andrew Ippolito: We were talking about a reality, where water didn't have this hydrogen bonds holding it together, and if that was the case.
1:36
Andrew Ippolito: The range of temperature over which water would remain liquid very quickly now we're down to a nine degree little tiny little region and that most of the water on earth would be a vpn.
1:48
Andrew Ippolito: So these hydrogen bonds are really the, the key to everything.
1:54
Andrew Ippolito: And that's that's the basic physical properties of water itself.
1:59
Andrew Ippolito: Now let's talk about a related topic solutions at the end of the day, a cell and biology is a solution really it's a it's a mixture of things it's mostly solution but there's also a couple other things thrown in there, so it's best to understand the relationship between.
2:16
Andrew Ippolito: Water and the things that can go inside the water to dissolve in there.
2:21
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so we have this thing called a solution. Andrew Ippolito: A solution by definition has two phases to it it's got a liquid fees and it has I guess you call it a solid fee is the solvent would be the liquid fees and the Salyut would be the solid fees.
2:36
Andrew Ippolito: And because we're dealing with water, as the softened really the call it the universal solvent we're going to talk about aqueous solution okay.
2:47
Andrew Ippolito: So let's talk about something called dissolve let's use the let's let's define this word here dissolve as opposed to another word will also use dissociate.
3:01
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, you can think of this is physical. And this has come and gone.
3:06
Andrew Ippolito: All right, when something dissolves and water that's a very generic term it just means that that thing let's call it X is surrounded by water molecules that's all it means got a skin of water on it, and the reason why I can do that is because that thing is either a polar or it charged.
3:26
Andrew Ippolito: In other words, it can experience and interaction with water and contrast, something that associates breaks.
3:32
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so that would be like the sodium chloride coming in and falling apart into the chloride and sodium ions okay so dissociate is the word, this is a very specific word, this means to break apart.
3:47
Andrew Ippolito: chemically. Andrew Ippolito: So we'll talk about glucose dissolving and water, but I want to associate glucose is still glucose in the water.
3:58
Andrew Ippolito: hydrochloric acid, so I didn't hydroxide sodium chloride these things dissociated water okay their chemistry changes.
4:07
Andrew Ippolito: make sense. Andrew Ippolito: Good alright so that's that's the difference there, so when we talk about solutions we're talking about things that do this.
4:18
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so let's say that dissociate is a specific kind of dissolving again dissolve is a generic word that just means it's surrounded by water, so I, it is appropriate to say salt dissolves in water.
4:32
Andrew Ippolito: It is equally appropriate to say salt dissociate some water, it is appropriate to say glucose or sugars dissolve in water, it is not appropriate to say glucose to associate some water.
4:41
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so we're going to say here that a solution is something that has dissolved in the water, whether it's dissociated or not okay.
4:51
Andrew Ippolito: All right. Andrew Ippolito: A colloidal dispersion or just a cold Lloyd, otherwise known as an emotion.
5:00
Andrew Ippolito: Is let's picture those saw you particles is bigger now okay that's the key here, the thing that's in the water is bigger.
5:09
Andrew Ippolito: and colleagues tend to be cloudy. Andrew Ippolito: But like a solution if you just leave them alone, they will stay that way they're equal their equilibrium is this evenly distributed.
5:26
Andrew Ippolito: system. Andrew Ippolito: Think khomeini's. Andrew Ippolito: ice cream.
5:32
Andrew Ippolito: The food in your stomach from breakfast Okay, but also extracellular fluid intracellular fluid so inside your cell, you also have this it's not your cell isn't just a solution that's also a colored okay.
5:47
Andrew Ippolito: You know, maybe gel like. alright.
5:53
Andrew Ippolito: So that's the code. Andrew Ippolito: And then I suspension is when you got even bigger things.
6:00
Andrew Ippolito: I hear some money Python the Holy Grail they talked about small rocks floating in the water and falls down to the bottom, that that's a suspension your blood is a suspension right the red blood cells in your blood will settle over time.
6:14
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: yeah snow Globe think of a snow globe, if you have a snow Globe on your shelf shake that up and watch the snowfall slowly and i'm he falls down to the bottom, the suspension okay so that's it there's solutions colds and suspensions.
6:29
Andrew Ippolito: And they're all three of them are now this picture might be a little confusing Okay, so you got a B and then see.
6:37
Andrew Ippolito: And the reason why you need to pictures of see is because the suspension settle over time, and so you need a before and after that right, so you can see here the solution, this might be, you know food coloring and water, this might literally be man is not sure.
6:55
Andrew Ippolito: And then, this is your blood, just after it's drawn, and this is blood after its draw after some time has passed and you can see it separates out between the plasma and the what they'd say the hematocrit.
7:09
Andrew Ippolito: Which is just a fancy word for the red blood cells and then actually in between them you'll see this tiny little white thing that's called the buffy later and that's where all your White blood cells are.
7:19
Okay. Andrew Ippolito: All right. Alexa DePrisco: So. Andrew Ippolito: yeah go ahead. Alexa DePrisco: What would milk, be considered.
7:27
Andrew Ippolito: Oh.
7:32
Andrew Ippolito: Both for co located on a solution, I would say. Alexa DePrisco: Because it has proteins in it.
7:37
Andrew Ippolito: But it also has sugars dissolved in, and so I would say it's both it's milk it's a third it's a fourth thing there's milk let's let's add a milk column here.
7:46
Andrew Ippolito: Now, so the key that's a great question because it does speak to the fact that. Andrew Ippolito: Sometimes you have things that are both I mean think of blood bloods a little ball that too right, you have sugar in your blood you got protein in your blood you got red blood cells in your blood so bloods all this.
8:00
Andrew Ippolito: Right so don't look at these as systems, look at these as states have a system that can overlap right.
8:09
alright. Alexa DePrisco: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so what I want you guys to do now.
8:15
Andrew Ippolito: You know what I would do on class I usually turn to your neighbor we can't do that you know and i'm not going to sit here and do breakout groups that's going to take like an hour to figure out.
8:23
Andrew Ippolito: So what we're gonna do is you're just going to think to yourself and talk out loud, this is think of it as a class i'm not going to talk, because I know the answer to this.
8:31
Andrew Ippolito: But what I want you to try to figure out is, why do we throw salt on the road in the wintertime like right now, why does it why that's putting salt down.
8:38
Andrew Ippolito: And and really as a follow up question is why shouldn't you in certain place like I don't start my driveway at all we ship it and i'll explain why in a bit, but go ahead, think about it.
8:50
Andrew Ippolito: Anybody have an idea. Zachary Lucas: isn't it because, like the freezing point depression.
8:56
Andrew Ippolito: Oh excellent okay so zach was saying that. Andrew Ippolito: It causes a. Andrew Ippolito: But you see a decrease or lowering.
9:03
Zachary Lucas: This is like resolving depression. Andrew Ippolito: The freezing freezing point depression right.
9:09
Zachary Lucas: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: So the idea is we're not heating it up that's what like most people think they throw the salt on in there and.
9:15
Andrew Ippolito: And it heats up, and I think some people think that because there was there are those little packets, you can buy you know, like when you go skiing or out in the snow you crack a minute there they get hot.
9:24
Andrew Ippolito: And I feel like they're filled with salt, maybe that's that's has nothing to do with this.
9:30
Andrew Ippolito: What salt does here so first of all look at look at this slide there's your sodium Ion right, so you would say this dissociated on water.
9:38
Andrew Ippolito: Right and look at the water around it, you can see that the hydrogens i'm sorry that the oxygens are surrounding it, because the oxygen they're slightly negative right, and so the sodium positive and then over here to the chloride, you can see that the hydrogen surrounding it.
9:55
Andrew Ippolito: So when you put all this together, you can see that you kind of form this matrix of sodium chloride interfering with the water crystals.
10:05
Andrew Ippolito: OK so. Andrew Ippolito: The water has to get even colder before it will be willing to crystallize because the sodium and chloride ions are disrupting it okay so basically any any solution of water that has stuff in it.
10:25
Andrew Ippolito: Whether it's sodium or glucose or so anything any ions in there is going to have a lower freezing point, this is why the ocean doesn't freeze over, but the freshwater lake next to it would.
10:39
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: This is why, when the when the ocean does freeze, you know it's cold.
10:47
Andrew Ippolito: Right. Okay. Andrew Ippolito: So i'll introduce a little topic here i'm just going to touch this awesome Moses, the idea of so in order to understand as Moses later.
11:01
Andrew Ippolito: it's helpful to understand that there's two kinds of water here there's water that's bound to whatever dissolved in in.
11:09
Andrew Ippolito: Like these water molecules here's the other they're bound to the sodium they're not free to move around they're stuck there's like little sponges and then there's other water molecules that are bound to them.
11:19
Andrew Ippolito: All right, and so we're going to see the US Moses, has to do when you have two solutions that have different amount of stuff in them.
11:25
Andrew Ippolito: And they're separated by a boundary of where the water is allowed to go past, but nothing else is, you are going to see the water flow downhill and that's that's Moses.
11:34
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, or you can also see on the right here, this is why waters able to easily dissolve sodium chloride, you can see these little water molecules here, these are the relative sizes to chloride, which is the big blue ball.
11:47
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so these little watermark up to get into the cracks and attack it and pull it apart very gently.
11:54
Andrew Ippolito: Okay alright So here we are we're now going to start to understand what peaches peaches all about water.
12:01
Andrew Ippolito: Understanding pH is really understanding of water so here's the thing when we look at a water molecule under normal circumstances, it will occasionally spontaneously all by itself, because it's just everything's bopping around all the time.
12:17
Andrew Ippolito: It will dissociate. Andrew Ippolito: Okay now in reality what's happening this, this is the chemical reaction, I mean this is the the way the equation is setup but what I want you to do is look at it, in reality, I want you to see water.
12:30
Andrew Ippolito: This is what really goes on, if this is a water molecule, and this is another water molecule.
12:37
Andrew Ippolito: Okay there's this week hydrogen bonding between them right right here. Andrew Ippolito: Between that hydrogen and oxygen.
12:46
Andrew Ippolito: Normally they'll just kind of stick together so little bits this is kind of like a handshake Okay, but every once in a while.
12:55
Andrew Ippolito: Water becomes a wiki like chewbacca and droids you know how wikis anybody here know the Star Wars reference what what are wikis do.
13:08
Andrew Ippolito: Nobody nobody here know Star Wars enough to tell me what it will keep us.
13:15
Jordan Russell: All I can think about is just chewbacca screaming. Andrew Ippolito: Okay yeah he does do that a lot he rips.
13:22
Jordan Russell: Arms off. Andrew Ippolito: They rip arms off that's honey yeah never, never.
13:30
Andrew Ippolito: Let the wiki when. Andrew Ippolito: Right we've all probably remember that phrase that's because they'll rip your arms off if.
13:36
Andrew Ippolito: that's right that's right when see three pieces why aren't why isn't anybody afraid of losing to a droid and Han solo says, because drives don't rip your arms off.
13:45
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so what what does it have to do, water will occasionally rip itself apart, so, in other words, this water molecule here will rip this hydrogen off here so it'll do this here i'm going to skip ahead to a here, this is what's going on.
14:05
Andrew Ippolito: There it is. Andrew Ippolito: Right I should put that in the first page you see that, so the watermelon comes along and instead of just having a nice little happy hydrogen bond and bouncing along it rips off the other hydrogen.
14:19
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so what does that do that causes this temporary state of the water Okay, so if I was able to pause that which I cannot but, so let me get out of here now go back to this point here.
14:36
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, I already I already taught you that I should we can get off the slide now.
14:41
Andrew Ippolito: Here we just stay here, so this thing here on the left hand side when this happens, we get this plain old oxygen when the hydrogen attached to it, but it has a pair of extra electrons all right, Christopher what's ripped off here is literally just the proton.
14:58
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so, as a result, this thing here is negative one, this is called the hydroxide ions.
15:04
Andrew Ippolito: And then on the right hand side we have this proton but really the proton is bound to a water molecule kind of like how we went through ammonium earlier today, this is called the hydro niamh Ion.
15:18
Andrew Ippolito: And this is the important thing, this is the reactive thing.
15:25
Andrew Ippolito: Now, just as fast as this happens in pure water this Hydra owning Am I on interacts with the hydroxide iron and brings brings us back to just having a pair of water molecules.
15:34
Andrew Ippolito: So this is how you would actually draw her right at eight to each two o's reversible give us two hydroxide i'm sorry one hydroxide negative plus H three helpless and there you go.
15:53
Andrew Ippolito: So if we think of this is a steady state. Andrew Ippolito: Or, this goes back and forth and oscillates what I want you to think now is let's let's say in a liter of water.
16:05
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so we have a graduated cylinder here and we have one leader of pure water.
16:13
Andrew Ippolito: All right, we have three things in there. Andrew Ippolito: We have h2o we have O H minus we have pH plus which really is each three plus.
16:28
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, these are the three different species of molecule that are in that water, and so the question is.
16:35
Andrew Ippolito: is how much of it is in there. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so this is where we measure things in moles because we don't care how big these things are we just care about how many there physically are so how many molecules of water.
16:50
Andrew Ippolito: How many molecules of hydro niamh and how many molecules of hydroxide so we're going to measure things and the number of moles in a leader and that's what modularity does.
17:02
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: We don't traditionally think about water having a mother and concentration, but does and here's why pure water pure water.
17:14
Andrew Ippolito: there's a little bit I didn't put a plus charge here sorry there's a little bit of all this stuff.
17:19
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so what determines this in pure water what determines, this is just the physics of water itself.
17:26
Andrew Ippolito: And so the only way we can calculate this rather, the only way we can learn this is to measure it, so this is an empirical observation of water, this is just water and out in the wild and it turns out, when we measure.
17:41
Andrew Ippolito: This in pure water this number of hydrogen ions we get a number of one times 10 to the negative seventh moles per liter.
17:51
Andrew Ippolito: which corresponds to point 1234567 miles per liter.
17:58
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so that this number right here, this is just the amount of hydrogen ions and a pure liter of water per liter of pure water.
18:09
Okay. Andrew Ippolito: Now, if I add something to that water.
18:16
I guess make it a solution. Andrew Ippolito: And what I add to the water changes that concentration.
18:26
Andrew Ippolito: For example, if I add something like hcl to it, which is an Ionic compound called hydrochloric acid what's going to happen when I add the hydrochloric acid into the water is like sodium chloride, for the same reasons it's going to dissociate completely into chloride ions in and protons.
18:48
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, what happens immediately is this each plus interacts with a water molecule.
18:56
Andrew Ippolito: Because that's mostly what's there and what's that going to create more of these hydro nehemiah.
19:04
Andrew Ippolito: and other words my concentration of hydrogen ions is going to shoot up.
19:10
Andrew Ippolito: So here's what I want you to do in terms of understand the math behind this take this number over here on the right, this one times 10 to the negative Seventh and make it 10 times bigger.
19:23
Andrew Ippolito: And what would you write, I want to make sure you understand decimals and exponents, and all this like negative exponents, how do you make this bigger in scientific notation make it 10 times bigger give me an answer.
19:36
takeaway zero. Andrew Ippolito: take away is zero Okay, how would you translate that into the scientific notation well what I write one times one times 10 to the.
19:47
Andrew Ippolito: Negative six good. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so everybody's got to see this when you have negative exponents negative exponents or just another way of writing out very small numbers that are decimals Okay, less than one So if you see a negative exponent that means you're talking about less than one right.
20:08
Andrew Ippolito: And so let's say that we add hydrochloric acid, and it goes, all the way up to one times 10 to the negative oh boy one times 10 to the negative one.
20:21
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so, in other words point one miles per liter. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, think of the difference now between this number here, and this number here just in terms of how much bigger that is right that's 110 that's 10 hundred thousand 10,000 hundred thousand that's a million times bigger.
20:45
OK. Andrew Ippolito: Now let's say that I put sodium hydroxide in water instead that's also going to dissociate and i'm going to get a whole bunch of these O H minuses these hydroxide items when I get those those are going to tend to interact with any hydro niamh that happens to be there right.
21:11
Andrew Ippolito: And what that's going to do is bring us into just a pair of water molecules and other words adding the sodium hydroxide to water is going to further reduce the concentration of this I drown him.
21:24
Andrew Ippolito: So that we're going to now go down down down to one times 10 to the negative 14th moles per liter.
21:35
Andrew Ippolito: or 1-234-567-8910 1112 1314.
21:43
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so just think of those three numbers point one right here point oh oh one and point or one.
21:56
Andrew Ippolito: Okay that's what we observe in nature. Andrew Ippolito: Okay aqueous solutions have this insanely broad range 14 orders of magnitude.
22:08
Andrew Ippolito: Of this kind of variation everything from hydrochloric acid in your stomach to sodium hydroxide which I can think of where it would naturally live sorry says something pipe deep inside some Oregon.
22:21
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so scientists when they're communicating with each other about these concentrations of things they don't want to keep writing all these huge numbers because it's hard to think about and so all the pH scale is.
22:33
Andrew Ippolito: it's like scientific notation it's a mental shortcut alright so because we're dealing with fractions we're dealing with less than one.
22:41
Andrew Ippolito: Right we're always going to have this this concentration of hydroxide or so or a drone em is always going to be less than one.
22:50
Andrew Ippolito: Right it's never going to be a positive number you're never going to have one times 10 to the second.
22:56
Andrew Ippolito: Right and if you're not sure if you don't understand that take your coffee and keep adding sugar to it until you have more sugar than your coffee is that really coffee anymore, or is that just kind of coffee flavored sugar.
23:11
Andrew Ippolito: Right take a sugar cube and a dropper and add a drop of coffee on to that cube.
23:18
Andrew Ippolito: Right that's the only kind of situation where you're going to have more stuff than solution, in which case that's not really a solution that's just like a wet thing.
23:26
Andrew Ippolito: So this number will eternally always be negative right so when scientists came up with this okay watch this i'm going to can I delete the screen now can I get rid of all this, if you guys want to take a screenshot of this gobbledygook guide but i'm going to delete it right now.
23:42
Andrew Ippolito: Like the board okay. Andrew Ippolito: Going once going twice.
23:48
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: So what I want to do it as a scientist see we were inventing a system to deal with this range of one times 10 to the negative one, all the way to one times 10 to the negative 14 and I, like, I just want this number right here.
24:07
Andrew Ippolito: Right I want something that gives me a scale from one to 14 that's just easier to talk about alright so here's what peaches, when you take pH in order to get that mathematically.
24:19
Andrew Ippolito: You would have to take the negative logarithm of that number.
24:25
Andrew Ippolito: And so, this right here is the formal definition of pH, it is the negative log of the concentration of hydrogen ions.
24:33
Andrew Ippolito: Now if you're like what's a logarithm. Andrew Ippolito: Right, most people when they see that word they.
24:40
Andrew Ippolito: kind of understand that here's the secret all the word longer than means is exponent.
24:47
Andrew Ippolito: right because remember when you first learn logs you had a log with a base of 10 of something so you'd say log of 10 you'd say log 10 of X.
24:57
Andrew Ippolito: Now just replace the word blog with exponent it makes sense that exponent with a base of 10 of X ah, an exponent with a piece of 10 of 710 to the seventh.
25:08
Andrew Ippolito: log seven. Andrew Ippolito: All algorithm is is an exponent just another way of writing it so now you're just saying take the negative log of the exponent.
25:18
Andrew Ippolito: And that's where the number comes from. Andrew Ippolito: Okay now here's the thing you can't ignore the other side of the the water you can't ignore the hydroxide right.
25:29
Andrew Ippolito: there's a relationship between that H plus and that O H minus because they're part of the same molecule right they come right back together again so it makes sense that, if one of them goes up the other is going to have to go down.
25:43
Andrew Ippolito: Right there's a really there's a special relationship here between them, because when they come together they form water they go away completely so wherever there's a pH number there's also what we would say a P O h.
25:57
Andrew Ippolito: And because there's a relationship between them. Andrew Ippolito: The more pH number, the lower the pH number, the higher the concentration of hydrogen ions, the lower the concentration of hydroxide ions and vice versa, and it just turns out the relationship between these is the and together, and you always get 14.
26:16
Andrew Ippolito: So, if your pH is seven your P O H is also seven if your pH is to your P O H is 12.
26:28
Andrew Ippolito: Because 12 plus two is 14. Okay.
26:34
Andrew Ippolito: and Andrew Ippolito: We choose to focus on the pH one and everyday life, we talked about the pH of our blood or the pH of your pool or the pH of whatever the pH of your stomach instead of the p O h.
26:49
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: So that's that's.
26:56
Andrew Ippolito: not ask for moles this that you know what I have a PDF file i've actually pulled all this out into a I should really delete this slide I have all this written in in a.
27:07
Andrew Ippolito: an essay, I suppose, be a little chapter of some future book or whatever talk explaining all of this, but moles are in relation to pH and all that so all the word mold means did I give you as other Freddie I can't remember.
27:22
Andrew Ippolito: Did I did I explain what i'm all Okay, let me don't read this don't read that just you guys know what the word doesn't means right it doesn't is just 12 things right.
27:33
Andrew Ippolito: A mole. Andrew Ippolito: is just equal to one times 10 to the 23rd ish it's just to just ballpark it 23rd right that's like 112345 had some really big number mind bogglingly big so big that if you take Earth.
27:52
Andrew Ippolito: And you and you give it a mole of marbles that are about quarter inch diameter, it will completely overwhelm the earth about I think it's like two kilometers thick.
28:05
Andrew Ippolito: just pure marble. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, now, why do we need this number.
28:11
Andrew Ippolito: If I told you, I had this little chunk of carbon here let's say this was one gram of carbon.
28:20
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, if we zoom down inside of it we went down to the electron microscope and we we can look at the actual atoms the question would be is how many atoms are in this graph.
28:31
Andrew Ippolito: How many atoms.
28:37
Andrew Ippolito: The reason why this is an important question for us is as we're going to see when we do things like take six molecules of carbon dioxide and as six molecules of water and yield one molecule of glucose.
28:54
Andrew Ippolito: plus six molecules of oxygen.
29:00
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, well, we look at equations like this. Andrew Ippolito: When we consider those six things of carbon those six molecules of carbon dioxide those six molecules of water, giving us one molecule of glucose and six molecules of oxygen we don't care about how much they weigh right it's not important that this is maybe a bigger molecule than this.
29:25
Andrew Ippolito: And this is a huge molecule This is just one of those these are ratios right, and the reason is it's like cooking.
29:33
Andrew Ippolito: You know let's say you were making a brown let's say you were making some cookies over Christmas time and the recipe, you were using call for two cups of sugar to one cup of flour.
29:45
Andrew Ippolito: Right cups. Andrew Ippolito: And so you wait, so your scoop up one cup of sugar and one cup of flour and you immediately notice that the sugar is really heavy compared to the flower.
29:59
Andrew Ippolito: doesn't matter I need one cup of sugar and one cup of flour, independent of how big they are.
30:06
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so in the lab when we're measuring things out we don't have a scale that gives us cramps i'm sorry we don't have a scale that gives us moles we don't have the scale it gives us Adams.
30:20
Andrew Ippolito: that's really what I should have said, to start with, let me say it again, we don't have a scale that gives us atoms I need six.
30:28
Andrew Ippolito: At really molecules I need six molecules of carbon dioxide you can't weigh that out.
30:35
Andrew Ippolito: Right, all we have in this big macroscopic world beyond the atom is mass the pull of gravity and so we have to figure out a way to to relate how heavy this thing is.
30:50
Andrew Ippolito: To how much we need. Andrew Ippolito: Right so imagine instead of saying one cup of sugar to one cup of flour.
30:59
Andrew Ippolito: I said 12.7 grams of sugar to wanted to 100 grams of flour, or whatever right just you see there's a difference there now so that's why we need Molar ratio that's why we need moles.
31:12
Andrew Ippolito: All right, but the mole does is it translates the number of particles of a compound to how heavy it is so we can weigh it out that's why it's useful for us and that's why we think in terms of moles moles remove the idea of how big things are.
31:28
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and because atoms are so small. Andrew Ippolito: That number isn't necessarily really big right, and so the original definition of a mole was the number of atoms in one gram of pure carbon 12.
31:46
Andrew Ippolito: And it turned out to like one point or two to e times 10 to the 23rd I can't remember my decimal points but.
31:54
Andrew Ippolito: don't don't quote me on that i'm sure it's on the slide OK, but so that's why and then in 2018 and October 2013 they updated the definition of a multi just making an exact number.
32:06
Andrew Ippolito: They removed it from something that we had to measure empirically they made it an exact number, because just it's just something we need to help calculate stuff.
32:16
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and that's the ball. Andrew Ippolito: And it's 6.022 not one there it is there's the number.
32:22
Andrew Ippolito: And you know I had I was itching it's six and really here's the long version of it 6.02214076 times 10 to the 23rd.
32:32
Andrew Ippolito: there's that number. Andrew Ippolito: Of.
32:38
Andrew Ippolito: Things per mole Okay, so this number is like the number 12.
32:45
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, there are 12 things in a dozen there are 6.022 times 10 to the 23rd things in a mall that's it okay.
32:55
Andrew Ippolito: Just an arbitrary number. Andrew Ippolito: All right, and that's that ties most.
33:02
Andrew Ippolito: All right, don't worry about this, this is again we'd be doing this in class So the idea here is think of the HIV lane that you drive in.
33:10
Andrew Ippolito: Right it doesn't matter if the occupant is you know, a mom and a kid or a dad and a kid or two grandparents or five really big people.
33:19
Andrew Ippolito: Though all that matters to people for every one vehicle that vehicle could be a tractor trailer that'd be cool to be a smart car or motorcycle doesn't matter okay that's the idea so that's your Molar ratio for every one mole of cars, you need to most of people.
33:36
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so now, when you see things like h2o what I want you to do is I want you to see that as a ratio two parts, hydrogen one part oxygen.
33:47
Okay. Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so there we go there's your concentration there's there's your the pH number.
33:55
Andrew Ippolito: Any questions. Andrew Ippolito: Does this make sense.
34:03
Good. Andrew Ippolito: Alright, and then here's my spiel on P O H, we already sent all this and it's really it's a lowercase P capital O H, but the font that you use to just makes everything all caps that's why that's just as PO.
34:20
PO damn right. All right. Andrew Ippolito: Here we go, so now we could talk about acids basis and buffers.
34:28
Andrew Ippolito: An acid is anything that associates and water and gives off protons okay so just put this in your head acids.
34:40
Andrew Ippolito: And then put an arrow and an H plus they give those up. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, they donate proton.
34:51
Andrew Ippolito: So hydrochloric acid is the most stereotypical acid now it's important to understand for this point in the Semester onwards, when we talk about a chemical reaction.
35:01
Andrew Ippolito: When we talk about things happening in the cell or in a test tube don't think of this thing as a single molecule see this as representing an entire population.
35:15
Andrew Ippolito: There are billions of them in there. Andrew Ippolito: And they're not all the same, some things have so in this case, in this case I don't say they're they're not all the same, what makes it acid strong when we see a strong acid, that means that when you drop this in water 100% of that population associates.
35:36
Andrew Ippolito: that's what makes it strong all of it does and pretty immediately that's why you never want to add.
35:43
Andrew Ippolito: acid or water to acid. Andrew Ippolito: The XO thermite reaction that gives. Andrew Ippolito: off is insanely.
35:48
Angela Harbeck: High know also by the pH scale like if it's higher up in the number, the more acidic it is.
35:56
Andrew Ippolito: The lower that yeah that's another thing you can put in your head. Andrew Ippolito: The lower the number. Andrew Ippolito: The more acidic it is and so here's how you remember that it.
36:06
Andrew Ippolito: won't try to draw straight line here, I have to change my stylist and that's about street okay.
36:14
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so this is a pH scale here 714 one just remember your alphabet there you go acid base.
36:25
Andrew Ippolito: that's another mental shortcut so the, the lower the number, the more acidic.
36:30
Andrew Ippolito: And the higher, the number, the more basic. Andrew Ippolito: And then the other word, you can use your alkaline.
36:38
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, something is alkaline just means it's basic those are entered you know you don't call something an alkaline it's a base that is alkaline I don't know why we have two words.
36:50
Andrew Ippolito: We don't have been more for aesthetic. Andrew Ippolito: I guess, we have to dangerous not just a SEC.
36:58
Andrew Ippolito: Because I mean. Andrew Ippolito: we're close also dangerous yeah good. question.
37:03
Jordan Russell: Now. Jordan Russell: You said or dangerous or corrosive.
37:09
or corrosive yes.
37:16
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Victoria Bloemker: The higher the number um something beans, what was the.
37:24
Andrew Ippolito: outcome how call line.
37:36
Victoria Bloemker: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so now let's talk about weak acids.
37:45
Andrew Ippolito: So there's a whole class of molecule that we would just collectively term organic acids organic meaning has got carbon and hydrogen.
37:58
Andrew Ippolito: Right and so each see oh three H2 co three.
38:04
Andrew Ippolito: The reason why this is a weak acid is because when you drop that in water, not all of it associates, some of it holds on to its proton.
38:14
Andrew Ippolito: Right and so here's where I want you to start building this concept in your mind of a spectrum of compounds that range from hydrochloric acid.
38:26
Andrew Ippolito: All the way to water. Andrew Ippolito: Right, so you can put hcl here and water here and then all the way over here sodium hydroxide.
38:37
Andrew Ippolito: Right and so anything in here in this range would be considered a weak acid.
38:43
Andrew Ippolito: In anything in this range would be considered a week base and there's a variation there some acids are weaker than others, some are stronger than others so some might associate.
38:52
Andrew Ippolito: You know 2% and be really weak others might be like 90% really strong are stronger OK, so the idea of a week so just it's not 100%.
39:05
Andrew Ippolito: And it's a spectrum there's a range. Andrew Ippolito: So you can have an entire range of peaches so some week SS might give you if you just dropping them water some week SS might give you a pH of five others might give you a pH.
39:19
Andrew Ippolito: 6.2. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, if it's under seven it's acidic.
39:26
Andrew Ippolito: alright. Andrew Ippolito: So let me give you some vegetables now. Andrew Ippolito: Well, so first let's talk about what bases are so the extreme based the strong base the classic strong basis sodium hydroxide.
39:38
Andrew Ippolito: Right and again complete dissociation on water. Andrew Ippolito: Sorry, a week base would be ammonia.
39:48
Andrew Ippolito: We talked about ammonia earlier today. Andrew Ippolito: When you drop that on water it's going to rip a proton off of water.
39:57
Andrew Ippolito: Because of that double that pair of electronic surveillance shell.
40:02
Andrew Ippolito: And that data cobell and bonded forms. Which again you all to know that it's.
40:08
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, but the key is it's going to dramatically increase the concentration of hydrogen ions high hydroxide ions rather.
40:17
Andrew Ippolito: that's why we get up there tend to the negative 14 three inch. Okay.
40:24
Andrew Ippolito: I should say, I should say sodium hydroxide when it associates completely when there's so much of this that's going to.
40:31
Andrew Ippolito: interact with what's little of this left and so that's going to give us this one times 10 to the negative 14 this might give us one time I don't have this number of my head, maybe one times 10 to the negative ninth.
40:42
Andrew Ippolito: place against somewhere between seven and 14 there's your week basis.
40:48
Okay. Andrew Ippolito: So here's here's one way to bit For those of you who are visual like me okay this this is carbonic acid here's your each to co three alright so there's there's a carbon surrounded by three oxygens that red dots and then one of those oxygens has a hydrogen Aman this O h.
41:08
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so what happens is. Andrew Ippolito: This proton will occasionally fall off why remember oxygen loves electrons.
41:18
Andrew Ippolito: And so, if you think of the system here as an electron cloud like we play with water just go back to that idea of thinking of the clouds of electrons.
41:26
Andrew Ippolito: This whole thing is siphoning the electrons from this hydrogen, this is being held on by a thread, this is a very, very weak bond right here, and so you drop this on water and chances are just going to fall off.
41:39
Andrew Ippolito: And it's going to cause this to be a negatively charged Ion and you're gonna its proton.
41:44
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, but this is reversible well another way to think of it as like this that proton can either be on or off.
41:51
Andrew Ippolito: Okay it's not 5050 it tends to be off. Andrew Ippolito: Which is why it's acidic okay does this make sense.
42:00
All right. questions. alright.
42:07
Andrew Ippolito: So let's put carbonic acid in. Andrew Ippolito: A couple of different environments let's say that we had an existing acid.
42:17
Okay. Andrew Ippolito: Where there's a lot of this H plus.
42:26
Andrew Ippolito: So visually, this is what you can imagine, in your head there's more protons hanging around than impure water and so what's going to happen is that's going to tend to push that proton onto the carbonic acid and it's going to act like a base.
42:45
Andrew Ippolito: You see, that remember, so a base would be the opposite of an acid it's going to absorb you can think of it as absorbing those proton.
42:52
Right.
42:57
Andrew Ippolito: So you have, in this case on the left hand side there you have a weak acid acting like a base.
43:04
Andrew Ippolito: On the other side let's say that we had too many hydroxide ions well now what's going to happen is if this is the extra hydroxide ions it got everywhere here those hydroxide ions are going to tend to keep that proton and make some water.
43:21
Andrew Ippolito: at the cost of this being negative. Andrew Ippolito: In other words, it's going to act like a stronger acid.
43:32
Andrew Ippolito: So, in other words carbonic acid, in this case, this week acid comes.
43:37
Andrew Ippolito: To the system. Andrew Ippolito: With his own favorite pH number.
43:44
Andrew Ippolito: Like 6.7 or or 5.2 and.
43:50
Andrew Ippolito: Regardless of what other. Andrew Ippolito: stuff is happening in the environment it's going to keep the pH there, so if you take a solution of carbonic acid you take a solution of this week acid, and you measure its pH right let's do that let's take this little let's take a beaker and as some age to seo three to it.
44:13
Andrew Ippolito: Right and we have a pH meter in there and the pH meter reads, and again I don't have these numbers burned into my head let's just make something up let's call this 5.2.
44:24
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so I have a one Molar solution of each to see oh three and the pH reads is 5.2 because some, but not all those protons are falling off.
44:34
Andrew Ippolito: If I add a little bit of hydrochloric guests to that now. Andrew Ippolito: The pH might drop a little bit, but then come right back.
44:43
Andrew Ippolito: If I had a little bit of sodium hydroxide to it, it might rise, a little bit, but then come right back.
44:48
Andrew Ippolito: that's the concept of a buffer. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, a buffer is a weak acid or a week base animal act like its opposite in the extreme environment it's a moderate.
45:05
Andrew Ippolito: It moderates the environment. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so here's here's a little fun analogy to think about let's say you go home for thanksgiving.
45:14
Andrew Ippolito: or Christmas and you're you're surrounded by all your family and like extended family aunts uncles cousins whatever and there's a whole range of political beliefs in your family let's say.
45:28
Andrew Ippolito: And so you're stuck during dinner time in between your far right cousin and your far left cousin.
45:37
Andrew Ippolito: And you're just arguing with each other across you and getting annoyed by this, and so you turn to your far right cousin and you see something to them and they accuse you of being a leftist.
45:48
Andrew Ippolito: And you turn to your left wing cousin and you see something to them and they accuse you of being right wing.
45:54
Andrew Ippolito: Right, whereas you're in the middle, so you moderate the environment okay so so a moderate would would act like a right wing.
46:03
Andrew Ippolito: In the presence of an extreme left wing and act like a left wing, you know, in the presence of an extreme right way right somebody who's moderates in the middle that's exactly what a buffer is doing.
46:14
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, the reason, these are important. Andrew Ippolito: Is because in our metabolism, as we.
46:22
Andrew Ippolito: conduct chemical reactions oh go ahead and Tory you have a question.
46:29
Victoria Bloemker: No, I didn't say anything. Andrew Ippolito: Oh you're Mike Mike went off for a second. Sorry.
46:35
Andrew Ippolito: Jordan. Jordan Russell: um so, in other words, can you save like the buffer access like.
46:42
Jordan Russell: A neutralization reaction. Jordan Russell: or something like similar to it.
46:47
Andrew Ippolito: yeah yeah yeah yeah. Andrew Ippolito: brings the pH closer to yeah so like instead of a bring it closer to seven like, if you look at my pen on the screen here let's say this is a pH of seven it's the pH of one pizza 14.
47:00
Andrew Ippolito: let's say that you know the neutralization actually wants us to get to seven right so let's say the week acids here like a 5.3, this is the new zero point.
47:09
Andrew Ippolito: it's going to like if we add an asset here it's going to bring it up this way, we had a base over here is going to bring it down this way.
47:16
Andrew Ippolito: it's always going to get to us and, eventually, you can overwhelm it right, you can keep adding acid to this until Finally it collapses, and that would be called the buffers capacity.
47:25
Jordan Russell: You reach the buffering capacity of that buffer. Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so it is a buffer it makes sense to you does.
47:33
Andrew Ippolito: All right, good the reason they're important is we don't if our metabolism as it's going.
47:39
Andrew Ippolito: A lot of the consequences of chemical reactions and ourselves increases or decreases the concentration of these I draw names and hydroxide.
47:46
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so we want to prevent wild swings of these concentrations, because most of the reactions that we're dealing with are driven by enzymes.
47:58
Andrew Ippolito: and enzymes me to protein as well learn soon can Demeter they will they will lose their structural integrity in the presence of a pH, that is true dramatically different than what they're used to.
48:12
Andrew Ippolito: And so we want to keep the pH of environments near where they are so, for example, your blood pH ranges from 7.35 to 7.45 that's your bloods healthy pH range slightly alkaline.
48:29
Alexa DePrisco: Okay, excuse me yeah. Alexa DePrisco: If you had like.
48:35
Alexa DePrisco: Diabetes or like if you went into like a state of ketosis would that be affecting the acidity or.
48:42
Alexa DePrisco: Yes, your blood. Andrew Ippolito: yeah yes. Andrew Ippolito: I think especially ketosis that will make it more acidic I believe or more don't quote me on that don't call me on that I don't have the physiology of my head, but yes, it will the pH of your blood, if your PhD are blessed with acid Josias and I think Alcatraz is those are.
49:05
Andrew Ippolito: very dangerous places to be because your metabolism starts getting very quickly out of whack and you can maintain.
49:11
Alexa DePrisco: homeostasis and then with the clotting disorder would that have to do with the pH of your blood or no, no clotting.
49:19
Andrew Ippolito: clotting disorders have more to do with.
49:26
Andrew Ippolito: Protein interactions and cell the cell adhesion problems that's that's the best I could do with that without digging into the research more and learning about myself more recording disorders, this isn't this isn't that's not a precipitation we actually do the pH necessarily.
49:42
Alexa DePrisco: All right, thank you sure. Andrew Ippolito: i'll look that up it do me a favor type that type that into our persistent chat so I don't forget that's that's a question I want to look up clotting disorders, I don't I don't think it has to do with pH, but I could be wrong.
49:58
Andrew Ippolito: Okay. Andrew Ippolito: I just gave you all the practical application stuff right, so we care about this, because it has to do with.
50:05
Andrew Ippolito: It will severely impact the biology of the system. Andrew Ippolito: And so I put this together, last year I really like this is this is everything we've talked about in one slide.
50:17
Andrew Ippolito: You can see the range and really it's a spectrum of how much or how little the molecule reacts with approved on.
50:27
Andrew Ippolito: There you can see, in the middle here the water molecule has some on and off rate right that dissociation read that gives us the one times 10 to the negative seven oh boy.
50:40
Andrew Ippolito: Say one a negative seven right the hydrochloric acid, you can see, mostly all of it falls off, whereas the sodium hydroxide.
50:50
Andrew Ippolito: Mostly stays off.
50:55
Andrew Ippolito: or I should say the sodium hydroxide here's the here's any oh hd hydroxide pulls it like a magnet.
51:04
Andrew Ippolito: All right, and then you can see the weak ones, you see the arrows are just favoring one side or the other right, and this is just the spectrum the spectrum of of buffering and peak.
51:17
Andrew Ippolito: Time so let's do one little practical application, we can see here's the mitochondria will learn about this later in the Semester we've all seen pictures of the mitochondria the powerhouse of the cell.
51:28
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, one thing we're going to do later in the Semester is we're going to watch as we pump this space in here, full of protons we're going to change the pH in here.
51:40
Andrew Ippolito: we're going to drop the pH and then we're going to use that gradient. Andrew Ippolito: To flow downhill and generate a force to make some energy alright, so the idea here is we're going to change the pH of this environment we're gonna have a low pH.
51:56
here. And the pH in here is going to be higher.
52:02
Andrew Ippolito: Okay let's do the same thing and chloroplasts. Andrew Ippolito: And so now, you can get this in your head life is all about establishing and maintaining concentration gradients and so in this case, this is a concentration gradient of protons.
52:17
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, all right we'll talk more about this later in the Semester that's that that's water in a nutshell.
52:25
Andrew Ippolito: it's all gonna stop the recording you can just watch this later and water.