0:01
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, this is the beginning of lecture three, which would be Chapter three in your book the chemistry of water.
0:09
Andrew Ippolito: And so, everything we talked about previously about political beyond bonds is now going to be translated into the properties of water.
0:18
Andrew Ippolito: So what we're going to do here is i'm going to skip the slide we already talked about this just now, so we don't have to repeat ourselves, but I want to introduce two vocabulary words to the idea of hydrophobic.
0:29
Andrew Ippolito: And hydrophobic Okay, these are descriptions of the behavior of molecules and their relationship with water, so any molecule.
0:41
Andrew Ippolito: That can experience of bonding with water through is hydrogen bonding we would consider that hydrophobic alright so there's two routes here fellows empath those filmic means love path, which means fear right, so we go to the Philharmonic right Philharmonic Orchestra, the love of music.
1:04
Andrew Ippolito: We don't go to the harmonic.
1:07
Andrew Ippolito: which I suppose, would be a small insulated room and which sound cannot come in around.
1:13
Andrew Ippolito: Because you fear sound right we live in a near the city of Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love, which many people construe as an ironic name.
1:25
Andrew Ippolito: We don't have a city called Philadelphia city of brotherly fear, nobody trusts each other, are you okay so that's the idea so hydrophobic are molecules that do not experience and interaction with water.
1:41
And there's consequences to that.
1:44
Andrew Ippolito: And there are many molecules that do interact with water and we'll call that how you're feeling okay so that's that you don't have to worry you don't have to memorize the 104.5 degree bond angle between the oxygen.
1:57
Unless you want to keep that as one of your fun facts that you impress your friends with you don't have to ever know that for me.
2:05
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so what we're going to do right now is we're going to go through the physical properties of water, what makes what are special and then we're going to talk about the chemical properties pH so cohesion is another vocabulary word, which means when any time.
2:20
Andrew Ippolito: The molecules of a given compound interact with each other so it's within so a water molecule interacting with watermark and we call that cohesion Okay, so you would say waters cohesive.
2:32
Andrew Ippolito: With this does is lead to a high surface tension okay so surface tension is a property of liquids.
2:41
Andrew Ippolito: And it is a measure of how much resistance can be.
2:46
Andrew Ippolito: it's a measure of how much force is required to break the surface and to get into it right so picture three well here, you can see the paperclip floating on the glass right or some kind of water bug jumping or long on the palm.
3:04
Okay.
3:06
Andrew Ippolito: And this also explains, if you take you know, like after after you wax your car.
3:12
Andrew Ippolito: Or if you ever go and you look at flowers after the rain you'll notice that the water beats up on the flowers in a very pretty way.
3:18
Andrew Ippolito: Those beads of water are driven by the balance between so for this be here the surface is hydrophobic it does not interact with water.
3:27
Andrew Ippolito: But the water interacts with itself and so that combination gives you the beating.
3:32
Andrew Ippolito: Right so flowers have a waxy surface that's hydrophobic, and so the water pools, whereas if you don't have a car that's freshly waxed the water just kind of speeches out on it right it doesn't beat because it's not hydrophobic necessarily.
3:49
Okay.
3:51
Andrew Ippolito: adhesion is this idea of interacting with other compounds so water is both cohesive and adhesive.
4:00
Andrew Ippolito: So there's a glucose molecule here, and you can see that this oxygen, which is in red here this this oxygen atom is slightly negative, and that is interacting with the slightly positive hydrogen.
4:14
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so this property.
4:17
Andrew Ippolito: Is what allows water to be considered the universal solvent okay.
4:25
Andrew Ippolito: It can dissolve anything that's hydrophobic and many things are hydrophobic so many things.
4:33
Andrew Ippolito: So you can see, like the beat of water beating on a leaf, in this case that's actually tree SAP on a friend plan that I took a picture of many years ago.
4:42
Andrew Ippolito: And it just sat there it didn't evaporate because it was SAP, which is very hydrophobic and doesn't interact with it doesn't evaporate so easily.
4:51
Andrew Ippolito: So I was able to take my time and get my camera and a good focus on my tripod and that was one of my favorite pictures, I took out West, and I think that was in sequoia National Park.
5:01
Andrew Ippolito: Many years ago alright.
5:04
Andrew Ippolito: So another physical property of water is the way it changes its state is very odd interesting water is unique in that.
5:14
Andrew Ippolito: Space unusual and that the solid version of water is less dense than the liquid version of water most solids are denser than their liquid counterparts, but not so water and here's why.
5:27
Andrew Ippolito: So here i'm going to go to the black screen for a second, and I want you to picture a water.
5:32
Andrew Ippolito: Just just a glass of water, and I want you to picture the water molecules in them themselves they're doing this, like my hands are always juggling.
5:39
Andrew Ippolito: everything's always juggling remember Okay, and it was hot What that means is they're juggling fast and if it's cold, that means they're juggling slow.
5:46
Andrew Ippolito: So I want you to picture fast juggling water molecules are fast enough where any to watermark is bumping into each other or fast enough where they don't get stuck together.
5:55
Andrew Ippolito: it's like running through a crowd high five in them on they want to shake your hands, no time clap clap clap clap right so now slow them down.
6:03
Andrew Ippolito: slower and slower and slower and eventually you reach a threshold, where the hydrogen bonds become the dominant force in the system and when that happens, you get this magical arrangement all the water molecule start falling in line and forming these beautiful hexagonal patterns.
6:25
Andrew Ippolito: Because of the shape of the water molecule So you can see here you zoom in a little bit here you zoom in here, you can see that so here's the hexagon have one more notice that every other one has its hydrogens inverted.
6:39
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and so the top of this, one you'll see has a hydrogen sticking up and the bottom of this one has an oxygen sticking down, and so they connect to each other through hydrogen bonds and they form these beautiful patterns, this is the crystal of water.
6:52
Andrew Ippolito: notice that the inside of the hexagon is empty space.
6:58
Andrew Ippolito: it's not dense and so a single cluster of these will be less dense than as you look at liquid water or all the molecules are clustered together it's more dense okay so that's why ice floats on top of your liquid water.
7:17
Andrew Ippolito: And because of this fact.
7:20
Andrew Ippolito: Right, so why is this property so critical to life on Earth anybody have any ideas about that.
7:26
experience.
7:28
Alexa DePrisco: So you can also like icebergs polarized stuff like that.
7:32
Andrew Ippolito: Okay.
7:32
Andrew Ippolito: Okay icebergs well let's let's imagine Imagine you had a lake a small legs Okay, so I want to go to a blackboard here.
7:39
Andrew Ippolito: So let's look at a cross section of the lake.
7:44
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and you guys a little fish in here and something growing here there's all this like life in here and what happens in the winter time.
7:52
Andrew Ippolito: The top freezes over right because ice is less dense what that does is that insulates everybody in here, keeping them safe during the cold.
8:02
Andrew Ippolito: Imagine ice didn't have this property imagine that solid water was denser than liquid water, then when you would have is as it got cold instead of a crushing over on the top the bottom would freeze.
8:16
Andrew Ippolito: Right and I mentioned at the bottom frozen this kept going up, because you have all these fish fish flopping around on here dead.
8:24
Andrew Ippolito: And so, this idea is it acts as an insulator.
8:27
Okay.
8:29
Andrew Ippolito: All right now, this here, this is called a State diagram.
8:34
This is the chemistry thing.
8:36
Andrew Ippolito: I don't want you to be able to read these and understand it it's on the bottom here you got temperature going on.
8:41
Andrew Ippolito: And on the side here you have a measure of energy.
8:46
Andrew Ippolito: How much energy are we putting into the system and the unit of energy we use is generally the calorie.
8:53
Andrew Ippolito: A calorie is equal to the amount of heat or the amount of energy, it takes to raise one gram of pure water one degree Celsius.
9:06
Andrew Ippolito: So Imagine you had a block of ice.
9:10
Andrew Ippolito: And you put it in a pot, and you put the pot on the stove and you turn the stove on, and so you have this constant influx of heat.
9:21
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so that's that's the game you're playing in your head you're warming up this big ice, but now I mentioned that I spoke at a thermometer in it embedded in it and you read it, and it says zero degrees because it's frozen.
9:33
Okay Celsius.
9:35
Andrew Ippolito: Excuse me.
9:37
Andrew Ippolito: Sorry alright, so we start adding calories of heat to the system.
9:43
Andrew Ippolito: One more time so let's do some more.
9:46
Andrew Ippolito: water.
9:52
Andrew Ippolito: All right.
9:59
Andrew Ippolito: So much there we go, so what we're doing is we're playing this game that we're watching a movie of water heating up, and so we would see.
10:07
Andrew Ippolito: As we start increasing the temperature let's say it's in minus 40 degrees, it says minus three degrees minus two degrees minus one degrees and then it says zero degrees right now you're heating this thing but it's still solid.
10:21
Andrew Ippolito: You need to pump another 80 calories into that ice Program.
10:29
Andrew Ippolito: To change it to a liquid.
10:33
Andrew Ippolito: see that So you see this here.
10:35
Andrew Ippolito: that's the amount of energy, it takes to take one gram of water and convert it from zero degrees solid to zero degree liquid.
10:46
Andrew Ippolito: All we're doing at that point is collapsing, the crystal structure we're going to go back a slide here what we're doing is we're we're making these things move fast enough so they start breaking apart.
10:58
Andrew Ippolito: we're not making them vibrate faster, and therefore the temperatures not going to change we're changing their layout or changing their entropy.
11:07
Andrew Ippolito: If you really want to get down to the nitty gritty of this we're giving them more freedom more degrees of freedom more chaos or going from a solid liquid.
11:16
Andrew Ippolito: or not increasing the temperature remember that whole H equals.
11:22
Andrew Ippolito: What are we G minus.
11:26
Andrew Ippolito: T s that's we're going to learn this later in the Semester, this is the total amount of energy in the system is equal to.
11:33
Andrew Ippolito: The amount of useful energy minus the temperature and entropy so temperature and entropy we're actually getting to see this here.
11:41
Andrew Ippolito: temperature is the whole everything's juggling the more juggling, the higher the temperature entropy as a measure of how structured things are so we're going from a low entropy state here.
11:52
Andrew Ippolito: To a higher entropy state here we're increasing that s we're not changing the tea at that moment and that's why in this diagram right here, this is solid, this is this is going up it's not the temperature is not changing.
12:08
Andrew Ippolito: Despite the fact that we're putting more energy into it.
12:11
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and then what happens between here, and here is that very satisfying you're watching the water boil and get hotter and hotter you see the steam coming off of it.
12:21
Andrew Ippolito: Right and then the temperature goes up you see 20 degrees 25 degrees 30 degrees 40 degrees 50 degrees 90 degrees 99 degrees 100 degrees and you're like now it's gonna boil and I could start eating soon and it doesn't boil.
12:35
Andrew Ippolito: what's going on here, why does it take so long for the water to boil it turns out that because water has all those hydrogen bonds.
12:44
Andrew Ippolito: Look at this jump look at this huge line going up here one gram of water takes 540 calories of energy to make it go from 100 degree liquid to 100 degree vapor.
13:02
Andrew Ippolito: And that property of water week, so we call this the specific heat of a compound specific heat is the amount of energy, it takes.
13:13
To change it state.
13:15
Andrew Ippolito: I should say specific heat is a measure of how much energy it can it can hold.
13:21
Andrew Ippolito: As opposed to the amount of energy has to give back to the environment has anybody here ever you know, think of a cookie sheet made of aluminum.
13:28
Andrew Ippolito: or think of aluminum foil you put aluminum in the oven before hundred degrees you take it out and it's cold like very quickly, you can touch it why because the aluminum has a very low specific key it gives you it gives the heat back just as fast as it takes it.
13:43
Andrew Ippolito: This is also why the deserts cold at night right during the day in the desert the sun shining down and it's really hot and it hits the silica in the.
13:54
Andrew Ippolito: In the sand and so it has a very low specific key, and so the sand reflects the heat right back at you, and so you're getting hit with to wait two heats.
14:02
Andrew Ippolito: that's why in the desert people were those very long robes the ideas that creates a convection currents like a fan, because the heats coming back from the sand so much what happens when the sun goes down.
14:13
Andrew Ippolito: It gets really cold, because nothing trapped the heat.
14:17
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, water is very different, if you live by the coast, the reason why the temperature doesn't change too much is because the water holds all this energy and just slowly gives it back.
14:28
Andrew Ippolito: This is also why your French Fries stay so hot they bring your mouth after you start to wait for him to cool down they take forever to cool down if you've ever eaten a baked potato or French Fries or mashed potatoes when they were really hot.
14:41
Andrew Ippolito: And you waited what you thought was a reasonable amount of time before sticking it in your mouth and then you're like God damn it you still bring your tongue.
14:50
Andrew Ippolito: that's because of the same property of water okay hi specific eat.
14:56
Victoria Bloemker: After.
14:57
Andrew Ippolito: Eight Oh, the h's and that's an nlp sorry.
15:02
Victoria Bloemker: that's the total he writing the whole thing again.
15:05
Andrew Ippolito: I know, like the total yeah yeah and and i'm sorry i'm giving this to really early in the Semester it's H equals G minus T, so this is something we learned in Chapter seven or eight is when we do thermodynamics.
15:19
Andrew Ippolito: it's just it crops up here in there.
15:21
Andrew Ippolito: So this is the free energy of this system, this is the temperature of the system, this is the entropy of the system, and this is the total amount of energy of the system so basically any system.
15:32
Andrew Ippolito: When you look at all the energy it has you can roughly divided into the useful energy we call G and the useless energy we call the temperature and the entropy.
15:41
Andrew Ippolito: We just say Ts and so in this diagram or watching the temperature go up and then it stops going up why, if we were able to look at this in 3D and the Z axis was entropy we will watch that change.
15:55
Andrew Ippolito: Actually, should that be a cool thing to look at someday might do it right so that's the entropy changing.
16:02
Andrew Ippolito: The amount of order in the system, the order is collapsing, the crystals are going from solid liquid or going from fewer degrees of freedom to many degrees of freedom.
16:12
Andrew Ippolito: Right, when I when I mean by that if I go back to slide is if I look at any given watermark could hear that watermark is constrained it's locked in place it can't move.
16:23
Okay.
16:25
Andrew Ippolito: And then it collapses, and now can move anywhere.
16:28
Angela Harbeck: you've given it more freedom because.
16:32
Angela Harbeck: Does it take a lot of energy to turn into ice.
16:36
Andrew Ippolito: So going back and forward always uses the same amount of energy, all this is reversible so it will take you would have to remove.
16:45
Andrew Ippolito: 80 calories of heat from zero degree liquid water in order to get it to be zero degree ice okay good good great question, I never thought of it that way.
16:56
Andrew Ippolito: OK, but so here here's the thing so imagine one gram of water.
17:00
Andrew Ippolito: you're at 27 degrees you add one calorie now you're 28 you had one calorie or 29 you had one carrier 30 your one calorie 99 01 carried 102 calories at 130 calories that 100 you have to go all the way to 540 before you start to see turn into beeper.
17:18
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, this is why we can, this is why we sweat, this is why humans have adapted a very special kind of sweat on our body our sweat is different than most other animals horses sweat but horse what isn't like our sweat.
17:33
Andrew Ippolito: We adapted to run far we can shed heat like no other animal.
17:39
Andrew Ippolito: that's why our bodies are shaped the way they are, and that's why we have all these sweat pores so here's what happens ready i'm going to go to the blackboard here.
17:47
Andrew Ippolito: This is the surface of your arm Okay, and you start running the temperature in your body goes up right, how do we call down where's this negative feedback come from.
17:59
Andrew Ippolito: What we do is we throw some salt up here and water follow salt will learn about us Moses later, and then we get some liquid water on the surface of our skin.
18:10
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, the air hot hot water right because we're hot the air then pulls the heat away and it keeps going and, once this evaporates it takes away with it, that 540 calories per gram.
18:29
Andrew Ippolito: So you are very, very efficient at cooling down you're pulling that heat away from your body now it's important to realize when we say calorie here we're talking about a real calorie not a capital calorie, which is a food calorie.
18:44
Andrew Ippolito: Which is 1000 calories okay so or kill a cow.
18:49
Victoria Bloemker: Right.
18:50
Andrew Ippolito: The reason is, and when you look at the back of your cereal box and it says there's 100 calories right imagine that said 100,000 calories you think oh i'm not eating that.
19:02
Andrew Ippolito: And so food calories are actually kilocalories.
19:06
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, so this is 540 lowercase calories.
19:11
Andrew Ippolito: or Point five calories.
19:16
Would you say.
19:19
Victoria Bloemker: Right, did I hear somebody say something sorry my.
19:23
Andrew Ippolito: Oh there vicki tori.
19:25
Andrew Ippolito: yeah my came.
19:26
Victoria Bloemker: To me and i'm like oh my God you're so cute.
19:28
Sorry.
19:32
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, all right so that's that.
19:34
Alexa DePrisco: Before you move on, just like about like any other sweating animal do we all have different sweat then, because I know you were different resources, but like what about like because it's saying apes and monkeys and Hippo sweat too.
19:47
Andrew Ippolito: Oh yes, they sweat and I don't know how different their sweat is that's a great question there so it's probably the same as theirs, if I had to guess the differences there there Harry.
19:57
Andrew Ippolito: And so they're going to get they're going to overheat fast and they can't run fast, because they they're not the walkers whereas we're bipedal.
20:04
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, when you walk on your knuckle week so here's one little fun thing about our bodies, if you think about your hips.
20:11
Andrew Ippolito: Right, if you think about your think of remember the old GI Joe action figures from like the 1980s and 90s.
20:18
Andrew Ippolito: Right, you have the the way the legs go into the socket so you have this joint right here Okay, if you think about it, you stand up, think about where your bone inserts into your body it's not 90 degrees it's not like a row like if you were designing a robot.
20:32
Andrew Ippolito: right if you were designing a robot that walked up right, you would put them, you would put the legs right there okay hours or is it think about where your hip socket is it's rotated forward and down.
20:45
Andrew Ippolito: optimized for knuckle walking.
20:50
Andrew Ippolito: While we're so we're we're not optimized for naca walking but it shows that we used to be Naka walkers.
20:56
Andrew Ippolito: Because if we weren't ever knuckle walkers the base of our hip would be 90 degrees from the surface of the gravity we lean forward a little bit and actually remember atavism I did it.
21:10
Andrew Ippolito: We talked about out of this decrease the idea of the snake, with the leg okay there's this family in Europe that has this weird atavistic trees, the whole family genetically related and they can't walk upright.
21:24
Andrew Ippolito: They only walk on their knuckles you could go Google this there's a whole documentary on them.
21:32
Okay.
21:34
Andrew Ippolito: So we run and we shed okay so other animals some some so think of your dog and your cat they don't sweat the pant.
21:43
Andrew Ippolito: that's what your dogs always panting when he's hot, the only place, they have the shed their heaters are mousehole they can't shit hit throughout their whole body.
21:51
Andrew Ippolito: shot your pile.
21:53
April Neeld: Actually dogs sweat on their cause and their tongue that's like how they.
21:57
Andrew Ippolito: Oh that's right that's right.
21:59
Andrew Ippolito: Yes, yes, yes that's Nessa new.
22:00
Andrew Ippolito: fact that I forgot about I.
22:02
April Neeld: just learned that recently too thanks for reminding me.
22:04
Andrew Ippolito: But they don't have sweat pouring out their whole body and so they're much less efficient than us and what was it their their paws are what.
22:11
April Neeld: They do their paws and on their tongue.
22:14
Andrew Ippolito: tongue that's right.
22:15
April Neeld: So that's why, when they're really nervous and rolling a lot.
22:18
Andrew Ippolito: Right.
22:19
April Neeld: that's kind of gross sweating off your tongue.
22:24
Andrew Ippolito: Alright, so if we didn't have hydrogen bonds and water, the freezing point would be minus 100 degrees let's just think of the spectrum of temperature right now here's your degrees.
22:35
Andrew Ippolito: here's 100 degrees here's minus 100 degrees so normal water this Celsius Celsius scale normal water freezes here and it boils here there's 100 degrees of range there where we have a liquid right without the hydrogen bonds, the freezing point would be here.
22:57
Andrew Ippolito: And the boiling point would be here.
23:02
Andrew Ippolito: tiny little window of nine degrees.
23:07
Andrew Ippolito: China Chinese kristin what CRM what Chinese Kristen what birds dogs.
23:14
April Neeld: Okay it's a hairless temperate dog.
23:16
Andrew Ippolito: That is cool.
23:18
Andrew Ippolito: Oh i'm learning all sort of thank.
23:19
April Neeld: You guys.
23:19
Andrew Ippolito: I love learning new stuff and I very rarely get to learn genuinely new things that I get to like keep forever in my head i'm never gonna forget that Chinese kristin dogs, I have to look that up.
23:30
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, but you see this now, so we have this little sliver of liquid now, in other words, earth would be this barren dry dust bowl.
23:39
Andrew Ippolito: And we would not have any life on probably Okay, so this property of water is what gives us the ability to have normal life as we understand it.
23:48
Andrew Ippolito: Okay, and woman and I have remaining i'm just going to introduce this concept of solutions to you a solution is when you have a combination of some liquid and then some.
24:01
Andrew Ippolito: Otherwise, would be solid that is interacting with the liquid, and therefore we would call dissolved Okay, and so, for most of life we're talking about what we would call an aqueous solution or solution with water in it.
24:17
Andrew Ippolito: All right, and so the saw you to particle would be the substance that is dissolved in the solvent, which is the water in this case Okay, and we call the differences phases, so we would say the the liquid fees and the side or the solvent fees and the side face.
24:38
Okay.
24:40
Andrew Ippolito: And when we meet when we reconvene on Monday we'll finish up.
24:47
This stuff will do pH and then we'll do.
24:53
Andrew Ippolito: what's next carbon organic chemistry all finished that too okay.
24:59
April Neeld: All right, so i'm gonna stop the recording right now, what is the quiz gonna be on live up to.
